CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2573: 

125.2573 Sec. 13.(1) The size and composition of the board shall be determined by an ordinance of the municipality. In a municipality with a population of 900,000 or more, 60% of the board members shall live or work in the empowerment zone as prescribed in an ordinance of the municipality, and 40% of the board members need not be residents of, but shall have a significant interest in or shall be representatives of organizations with a substantial interest in, the empowerment zone as prescribed in an ordinance of the municipality. An elected official or candidate for elective office shall not serve as a board member.(2)The chief executive officer, with the approval of the municipality's governing body, shall appoint the members of the board of directors. A director may be removed for cause by the chief executive officer as prescribed by an ordinance of the municipality.(3)The qualifications and mechanisms for the selection of the members of the board of directors, the filling of vacancies, and the number of members shall be prescribed by an ordinance of the municipality. The board of directors and all committees shall reflect the demographic diversity of the empowerment zone.(4)The board of directors shall establish an executive committee to manage the corporation. The size and manner of selection of the members of the executive committee and the number of members shall be prescribed by ordinance of the municipality. In a municipality with a population of 900,000 or more, 60% of the executive committee shall live or work in the empowerment zone as prescribed in an ordinance of the municipality, and 40% of the executive committee need not be residents of, but shall have a substantial interest in or shall be representatives of organizations with a substantial interest in, the empowerment zone as prescribed in an ordinance of the municipality. The executive committee shall reflect the demographic diversity of the empowerment zone.(5)The board of directors may establish neighborhood review panels and necessary subcommittees to monitor the implementation of programs detailed in the strategic plan. The size and manner of selection of the members of the neighborhood review panels and the number of members shall be prescribed by an ordinance of the municipality. In addition, the neighborhood review panel shall demographically reflect the empowerment zone.(6)The corporation shall employ an executive director and other necessary staff.