CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2461: 

125.2461 Sec. 11.(1) The governor shall remove an elected or appointed member of the authority board if the governor is satisfied from the evidence submitted that the member is guilty of official misconduct, willful neglect of duty, extortion, or habitual intoxication, or has been convicted of a misdemeanor of which intoxication is an element. The governor shall not act upon the charges made against the member of the authority board until the charges are made in writing, verified by the affidavit of the party making the charges that the party believes the charges to be true. In addition, a member of the authority board shall not be removed for official misconduct or willful neglect of duty unless a copy of the charges is served on the member of the authority board, and the member of the authority board is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense. The service of the charges upon the member of the authority board shall be made by handing to the member of the authority board a copy of the charges, together with any affidavits or exhibits that accompanied the charges, if the member of the authority board can be found. If the member of the authority board cannot be found, a copy shall be left at the last place of residence of the member of the authority board with a person of suitable age, if a person of suitable age can be found. If a person of suitable age cannot be found, a copy shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the last known place of residence of the member of the authority board. A member of the authority board who is removed pursuant to this subsection is not eligible for election or appointment to an authority board office for a period of 3 years after the date of removal from office.(2)In addition to removal under subsection (1), a member of the first authority board appointed under section 8(4)(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), or (d)(i) may be removed from office by filing with the state treasurer a petition signed by 2/3 of the record owners of real property located within the district. Not more than 14 days after the receipt of the petition, the state treasurer shall determine the sufficiency of the petition. If the petition is sufficient, the state treasurer shall immediately send notice of the removal by certified mail to the authority board, the person filing the petition for removal, and the member of the authority board being removed. The removal is effective upon the date of receipt of the notice by the authority board.(3)In addition to removal as provided in subsection (1), a member of the first authority board appointed by the state treasurer pursuant to section 8(4)(a)(ii), (a)(iii), (b)(ii), (b)(iii), (c)(ii), (c)(iii), (d)(ii), or (d)(iii) or any of that member's successors appointed by the state treasurer may be removed at the pleasure of the state treasurer, with or without cause. In addition to removal as provided in subsection (1), a member of the authority board nominated or appointed by a township board or county board of commissioners may be removed at the pleasure of the township board or county board of commissioners, respectively, with or without cause.