CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4608: 

125.4608 Sec. 608.(1) Except as provided in subsection (7) or as otherwise provided in subsection (8), an authority shall be under the supervision and control of a board consisting of the chief executive officer of the municipality or his or her assignee and not less than 5 or more than 9 members as determined by the governing body of the municipality. Members shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of the municipality, subject to approval by the governing body of the municipality. Not less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an ownership or business interest in property located in the development area. At least 1 of the members shall be a resident of the development area or of an area within 1/2 mile of any part of the development area. Of the members first appointed, an equal number of the members, as near as is practicable, shall be appointed for 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, and 4 years. A member shall hold office until the member's successor is appointed. After the initial appointment, each member shall serve for a term of 4 years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the chief executive officer of the municipality for the unexpired term only. Members of the board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The chairperson of the board shall be elected by the board.(2) Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.(3) The proceedings and rules of the board are subject to the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275. The board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the holding of regular meetings, subject to the approval of the governing body. Special meetings may be held if called in the manner provided in the rules of the board.(4) After having been given notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of the board may be removed for cause by the governing body.(5) All expense items of the authority shall be publicized monthly and the financial records shall always be open to the public.(6) A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by the board in the performance of an official function is subject to the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246.(7) If the boundaries of the development area are the same as those of a business improvement district established under 1961 PA 120, MCL 125.981 to 125.990m, the governing body of the municipality may provide that the members of the board of the authority shall be the members of the board of the business improvement district and 1 person shall be a resident of the development area or of an area within 1/2 mile of any part of the development area.(8) If 2 or more cities, villages, or townships create a joint authority under section 604(2), the board shall consist of up to 3 individuals appointed by the chief executive officer of each city, village, or township that is a member of the joint authority. Each of those individuals shall be appointed for initial staggered terms of 2 years, 3 years, or 4 years. A member shall hold office until the member's successor is appointed. After the initial appointment, each member shall serve for a term of 4 years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the chief executive officer of the city, village, or township for the unexpired term only. Members of the board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The chairperson of the board shall be elected by the board.