CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1509b: 

125.1509b Sec. 9b.(1)The director, as prescribed in this section, may conduct a performance evaluation of an enforcing agency to assure that the administration and enforcement of this act and the code is being done pursuant to either section 8a or 8b. A performance evaluation may only be conducted either at the request of the local enforcing agency or upon the receipt of a written complaint. If a performance evaluation is to be conducted upon the receipt of a written complaint, the director shall first refer the written complaint to the affected enforcing agency requesting a written response within 10 days. If the local enforcing agency fails to provide a written response, or if the response is considered inadequate, the director shall consult with the commission and request approval to conduct the performance evaluation. The director shall submit a written recommendation to the commission and shall send a copy to the affected enforcing agency, along with a reasonable notice of the commission meeting at which the recommendation will be presented. The decision of the commission to proceed with a performance evaluation shall be made at a public meeting. This decision shall be mailed to the enforcing agency 10 days in advance of conducting the performance evaluation.(2)When conducting a performance evaluation of an enforcing agency, the director may request that the local enforcing agency accompany the director or other state inspectors on inspections. The inspections shall be for the enforcement of this act and the code. The enforcing agency shall maintain all official records and documents relating to applications for permits, inspection records including correction notices, orders to stop construction, and certificates of use and occupancy. The enforcing agency shall make available for review all official records between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on business days.(3)Upon completion of a performance evaluation, the director shall report the findings and any recommendations to the commission and the local enforcing agency. The commission may issue a notice of intent to withdraw the responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code from a governmental subdivision after receiving the results of a performance evaluation. The notice shall include the right to appeal within 30 business days after receipt of the notice of intent to withdraw the responsibility. The notice shall also include the findings of the director, after completion of a performance evaluation, that the enforcing agency of that governmental subdivision has failed to follow the duties recognized under this act, the code, or its ordinance. Failure by the enforcing agency or the chief elected official of that governmental subdivision to request a hearing within 30 business days after receipt of the notice of intent to withdraw the responsibility shall be considered to exhaust the enforcing agency's administrative remedies and the notice shall be considered a final order of the commission under the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328. The director shall assume responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code, unless the county within which that governmental subdivision is located has submitted a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code, when the notice is considered a final order of the commission. A structure commenced under an effective code shall be completed under that code.(4)If an enforcing agency or the chief elected official of the governmental subdivision transmits an appeal of the notice of intent to withdraw the responsibility issued under subsection (3), the commission chairperson shall request appointment of a hearings officer. The hearings officer shall conduct a hearing of the appeal pursuant to the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328, and issue a proposed decision which shall be sent to the affected parties. The proposed decision shall become the final order issued by the commission, unless exceptions are filed by a party within 30 days after receipt of the proposed decision. The commission shall review the proposed decision when exceptions are filed.(5)The commission in reviewing a proposed decision may affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the proposed decision. When the commission affirms, modifies, reverses, or remands a proposed decision, the decision of the commission shall be in writing and contain the findings of fact and conclusions of law upon which its decision is based. Other than in a case of remand, the period for seeking judicial review of the commission's decision under section 104 of the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.304, shall begin to run upon receipt by the parties of the commission's written decision.