CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1617: 

125.1617 Sec. 17.(1) The governing body of the municipality for which the corporation is incorporated, before adoption of a resolution approving a project plan authorized by this act, shall hold a public hearing. This act shall not be construed to require any other municipality, other than the municipality for which the corporation is incorporated, to hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given by publication once in a newspaper of general circulation designated by the municipality, not less than 10 days before the date set for the hearing. In the case of an agricultural and forestry enterprise project undertaken by a county corporation, each unit of government within the county shall be notified by mail.(2)Notice of the hearing shall be posted in at least 10 conspicuous and public places in the proposed project district area not less than 10 days before the hearing and shall be mailed not less than 10 days before the hearing to the last known owner of each parcel of real property in the proposed project district area at the last known address of the owner as shown by the tax assessment records of the municipality in which the project area is located. Agricultural and forestry enterprise projects shall not be required to comply with this subsection. (3)Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing on a proposed project plan shall contain a description of the location of the project area in relation to highways, streets, streams, or otherwise. The notice shall contain a statement that maps, plats, and a description of the proposed project plan, including the method of relocating families and individuals who will be displaced from the area, are available for public inspection at a place designated in the notice and that all aspects of the proposed project plan will be open for discussion at the public hearing and shall contain other information the governing body considers appropriate. At the time set for hearing, the governing body shall provide an opportunity for interested persons to be heard and shall receive and consider communications in writing with reference to the hearing. The hearing shall provide the fullest opportunity for expression of opinion, for argument on the merits, and for introduction of documentary evidence pertinent to the proposed project plan. The governing body shall make and preserve a record of the public hearing, including all data presented at the public hearing. The record shall be made available to the public in compliance with Act No. 442 of the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, being sections 15.231 to 15.246 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.