CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2343: 

125.2343 Sec. 43.(1) If, after notice and a hearing as provided in the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328, a person is determined to have violated this act, the commission may impose 1 or more of the following penalties:(a) Censure.(b) Probation. (c) License limitation.(d) License suspension. The commission may request the appointment of a receiver when taking action under this subdivision.(e) License revocation. The commission may request the appointment of a receiver when taking action under this subdivision.(f) License denial.(g) A civil fine of not more than $50,000.00.(h) Restitution.(2) A fine collected under this section shall be deposited with the state treasurer and credited to the mobile home code fund created in section 9.(3) If the department determines that the owner or operator of a mobile home park or seasonal mobile home park has violated this act or rules promulgated under this act by failing to maintain or repair any infrastructure or facilities of the mobile home park or seasonal mobile home park, the department shall give notice of the determination by personal service or first-class mail to the local governments where the mobile home park is located, the owner, the operator, and, if financial assurance in the form of a bond has been posted under rules promulgated under section 16(2), the surety executing the bond. If the owner, operator, or surety does not perform or commence the specified maintenance or repair within 60 days after service of the notice, the department or its authorized representative may enter the mobile home park or seasonal mobile home park and perform the specified maintenance or repair. At the request of the owner, operator, or surety, the department may grant an extension of up to an additional 90 days. The owner, operator, and any surety are jointly and severally liable for all expenses incurred by the department or its authorized representative in performing the specified maintenance or repair. The department shall certify the claim to the owner, operator, and any surety, listing in the claim the items of expense in performing the maintenance or repair, and shall draw on any financial assurance for the payment of the claim. The department shall notify the local government where the mobile home park is located when the specified maintenance or repair has been completed.(4) This section does not prohibit actions from being taken under other sections of this act.(5) The pursuit in court of the lawful rights of a licensee does not constitute a violation of this act, regardless of the outcome of the court action.