CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1992: EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER

125.1992 WHEREAS, Section 1 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 vests the executive power of the State of Michigan in the Governor;WHEREAS, Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 empowers the Governor to make changes in the organization of the executive branch or in the assignment of functions among its units that the Governor considers necessary for efficient administration;WHEREAS, when creating the Michigan Economic Growth Authority, the Michigan Legislature determined that it was in the public interest to promote private investment and to encourage job creation, and job upgrading for residents of this state;WHEREAS, reorganization of the membership of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority and enhanced transparency and accountability measures are necessary to assure public confidence in the activities of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority and its continued effectiveness in attracting and retaining jobs in this state;WHEREAS, there is a continuing need to reorganize functions among state departments to ensure efficient administration and effectiveness of government;NOW THEREFORE, I, Jennifer M. Granholm, Governor of the State of Michigan, by virtue of the power vested in the Governor by the Michigan Constitution of 1963 and Michigan law, order the following: I. DEFINITIONS As used in this Order:A. "Board of Directors" or "Board" means the members of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority provided for under Section 4 of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority Act 1995 PA 24, MCL 207.804, and Executive Order 2006-13, MCL 125.1991.B. "Michigan Economic Growth Authority" or "Authority" means the authority created under the Michigan Economic Growth Authority Act, 1995 PA 24, MCL 207.801 to 207.810, and transferred to the Michigan Strategic Fund under Executive Order 1999-1, MCL 408.40.C. "Michigan Strategic Fund" means the public body corporate and politic created under Section 5 of the Michigan Strategic Fund Act, 1984 PA 270, MCL 125.2005. II. MICHIGAN ECONOMIC GROWTH AUTHORITY A. The position as a voting member and Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority designated for the President of the Michigan Strategic Fund or his or her designee under Executive Order 2006-13, MCL 125.1991, is abolished. After the effective date of this Order, the President of the Michigan Strategic Fund shall serve as an ex officio, non-voting member of the Board.B. The position as a member of the Board designated for the Director of the Department of Transportation under Section 4(2)(d) of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority Act, 1995 PA 24, MCL 207.804(2)(d), is transferred from the Director of the Department of Transportation to the State Budget Director or his or her designee from within the State Budget Office.C. The designation as Chairperson of the Authority is transferred to the State Treasurer or his or her designated representative from within the Department of Treasury. The State Treasurer, or his or her designated representative from within the Department of Treasury, shall continue to serve as a member of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority.D. The Board of the Authority may elect a Vice-Chairperson.E. Members of the Board of Directors of the Authority shall discharge their duties in a nonpartisan manner, with good faith, and with that degree of diligence, care, and skill that an ordinarily prudent person would exercise under similar circumstances in a like position. III. OPERATIONS OF THE MICHIGAN ECONOMIC GROWTH AUTHORITY A. A majority of the voting members of the Board of the Authority serving constitutes a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Authority. The Board Authority shall act by a majority vote of the serving and voting members of the Board.B. Members of the Authority Board of Directors may be present in person at a meeting of the Authority or, if authorized by the bylaws of the Authority, by use of telecommunications or other electronic equipment if a quorum of the Authority Board of Directors is present at the meeting.C. The Authority shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or as may be provided by the Board. Meetings may be held anywhere in this state at a location accessible to the general public.D. The Board may, as appropriate, make inquiries, studies, investigations, hold hearings, and receive comments from the public. The Board also may consult with outside experts in order to perform its duties, including, but not limited to, experts in the private sector, organized labor, government agencies, and at institutions of higher education.E. Members of the Board of Directors of the Authority shall serve without compensation, but may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and expenses consistent with relevant statutes and the rules and procedures of the Civil Service Commission and the Department of Technology, Management, and Budget, subject to available funding. IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSFERS A. The President of the Michigan Strategic Fund shall provide executive direction and supervision for the implementation of all transfers under this Order. V. MISCELLANEOUS A. Any suit, action, or other proceeding lawfully commenced by, against, or before any entity affected by this Order shall not abate by reason of the taking effect of this Order. Any suit, action, or other proceeding may be maintained by, against, or before the appropriate successor of any entity affected by this Order.B. All rules, regulations, orders, contracts, and agreements relating to the functions transferred under this Order lawfully adopted prior to the effective date of this Order shall continue to be effective until revised, amended, repealed, or rescinded.C. This Order shall not abate any criminal action commenced by this state prior to the effective date of this Order.D. The invalidity of any portion of this Order shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Order, which may be given effect without any invalid portion. Any portion of this Order found invalid by a court or other entity with proper jurisdiction shall be severable from the remaining portions of this Order.In fulfillment of the requirements under Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, the provisions of this Order are effective 60 days after the filing of this Order. E.R.O. No. 2010-4 EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER