CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4216: 

125.4216 Sec. 216.(1) The municipality may by resolution of its governing body authorize, issue, and sell general obligation bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this subsection to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan and shall pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of the bonds. The municipality may pledge as additional security for the bonds any money received by the authority or the municipality pursuant to section 211. The bonds are subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821. Before the municipality may authorize the borrowing, the authority shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenues and other revenue available under section 211 to be available for payment of principal and interest on the bonds, to the governing body of the municipality. This estimate shall be approved by the governing body of the municipality by resolution adopted by majority vote of the members of the governing body in the resolution authorizing the bonds. If the governing body of the municipality adopts the resolution authorizing the bonds, the estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenues and other revenue available under section 211 to be available for payment of principal and interest on the bonds shall be conclusive for purposes of this section. The bonds issued under this subsection shall be considered a single series for the purposes of the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2801.(2) By resolution of its governing body, the authority may authorize, issue, and sell tax increment bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this subsection to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan. The tax increment bonds issued by the authority under this subsection shall pledge solely the tax increment revenues of a development area in which the project is located or a development area from which tax increment revenues may be used for this project, or both. In addition or in the alternative, the bonds issued by the authority pursuant to this subsection may be secured by any other revenues identified in section 211 as sources of financing for activities of the authority that the authority shall specifically pledge in the resolution. However, the full faith and credit of the municipality shall not be pledged to secure bonds issued pursuant to this subsection. The bond issue may include a sum sufficient to pay interest on the tax increment bonds until full development of tax increment revenues from the project and also a sum to provide a reasonable reserve for payment of principal and interest on the bonds. The resolution authorizing the bonds shall create a lien on the tax increment revenues and other revenues pledged by the resolution that shall be a statutory lien and shall be a first lien subject only to liens previously created. The resolution may provide the terms upon which additional bonds may be issued of equal standing and parity of lien as to the tax increment revenues and other revenues pledged under the resolution. Bonds issued under this subsection that pledge revenue received under section 211 for repayment of the bonds are subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821.(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, if the state treasurer determines that an authority or municipality can issue a qualified refunding obligation and the authority or municipality does not make a good-faith effort to issue the qualified refunding obligation as determined by the state treasurer, the state treasurer may reduce the amount claimed by the authority or municipality under section 213b by an amount equal to the net present value saving that would have been realized had the authority or municipality refunded the obligation or the state treasurer may require a reduction in the capture of tax increment revenues from taxes levied by a local or intermediate school district or this state by an amount equal to the net present value savings that would have been realized had the authority or municipality refunded the obligation. This subsection does not authorize the state treasurer to require the authority or municipality to pledge security greater than the security pledged for the obligation being refunded.