CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1392: EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER

125.1392 WHEREAS, Section 1 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 vests the executive power of the State of Michigan in the Governor;WHEREAS, Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 empowers the Governor to make changes in the organization of the executive branch of state government or in the assignment of functions among its units that the Governor considers necessary for efficient administration;WHEREAS, there is a continuing need to reorganize functions amongst state departments to ensure efficient administration and effectiveness of government;WHEREAS, abolishing the Michigan Housing and Community Development Fund Advisory Committee will contribute to a smaller and more efficient state government;NOW, THEREFORE, I, Jennifer M. Granholm, Governor of the State of Michigan, by virtue of the power and authority vested in the Governor by the Michigan Constitution of 1963 and Michigan law, order the following: I. DEFINITIONS As used in this Order:A. "Michigan State Housing Development Authority" means the public body corporate and politic created under Section 21 of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, 1966 PA 346, MCL 125.1421.B. "Michigan Housing and Community Development Fund Advisory Committee" means the committee created under Section 58e of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, 1966 PA 346, MCL 125.1458e.C. "State Budget Director" means the individual appointed by the Governor pursuant to Section 321 of The Management and Budget Act, 1984 PA 431, MCL 18.1321.D. "Type III transfer" means that term as defined under Section 3(c) of the Executive Organization Act of 1965, 1965 PA 380, MCL 16.103. II. TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY A. Any and all of the authority, powers, duties, functions, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds of the Michigan Housing and Community Development Fund Advisory Committee authorized under Section 58e of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, 1966 PA 346, MCL 125.1458e, are transferred by Type III transfer to the Michigan State Housing Development Authority.B. The Michigan Housing and Community Development Fund Advisory Committee is abolished. III. IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSFERS A. The Executive Director of the Michigan State Housing Development Authority shall provide executive direction and supervision for the implementation of all transfers of functions under this Order and shall make internal organizational changes as necessary to complete the transfers under this Order.B. The functions transferred under this Order shall be administered by the Executive Director of the Michigan State Housing Development Authority in such ways as to promote efficient administration.C. All records, property, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds used, held, employed, available, or to be made available to the Michigan Housing and Community Development Fund Advisory Committee for the activities, powers, duties, functions, and responsibilities transferred under this Order are transferred to the Michigan State Housing Development Authority.D. The State Budget Director shall determine and authorize the most efficient manner possible for handling financial transactions and records in the state's financial management system necessary for the implementation of this Order. IV. MISCELLANEOUS A. All rules, orders, contracts, and agreements relating to the functions transferred under this Order lawfully adopted prior to the effective date of this Order shall continue to be effective until revised, amended, repealed, or rescinded.B. This Order shall not abate any suit, action, or other proceeding lawfully commenced by, against, or before any entity affected under this Order. Any suit, action, or other proceeding may be maintained by, against, or before the appropriate successor of any entity affected under this Order.C.The invalidity of any portion of this Order shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the Order, which may be given effect without any invalid portion. Any portion of this Order found invalid by a court or other entity with proper jurisdiction shall be severable from the remaining portions of this Order.In fulfillment of the requirements under Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, the provisions of this Order are effective August 10, 2009 at 12:01 a.m. E.R.O. No. 2013-3 EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER