CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.946b: 

125.946b Sec. 6b.(1)For the purpose of providing funds to pay all or part of the cost of any project undertaken under this act or the net project cost of any project undertaken under this act with federal financial assistance, municipalities may provide by resolution duly adopted by its legislative body and without vote of the electors of the municipality for borrowing money and issuing general obligation bonds of the municipality, which bonds shall pledge the full faith and credit of the municipality.(2)The bonds may be issued and sold from time to time during the progress of any project undertaken under this act, in which event the maximum amount of bonds issued shall not exceed the estimated cost of any project undertaken under this act or the estimated net cost of any project undertaken under this act with federal assistance. The legislative body in the resolution authorizing issuance of the bonds shall set forth the estimate or the bonds may be issued when any project has been completed. Bonds issued under this section shall be designated "neighborhood improvement bonds". All bonds issued under this section are subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821. It being the determination of the legislature that urban blight constitutes a serious menace to public health, welfare, and safety of municipalities and their inhabitants and that the financing of projects designed to prevent urban blight is necessary for the public health, welfare, and safety. The bonds authorized to be issued under this section are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose. The maximum principal amount of bonds that may be authorized under this section in any year shall not exceed an amount equal to the limitation on the maximum rate of taxation for the year for the municipality authorized by law less the taxes actually levied for the year exclusive of debt service tax levies and less budget bonds for the year issued or authorized to be issued, and less any bonds authorized in the year to be issued under sections 7a and 7b of 1945 PA 344, MCL 125.77a and 125.77b. Any bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this section shall be sold not later than 3 full fiscal years from the end of the fiscal year in which the bonds are authorized to be issued. The maximum amount of bonds issued pursuant to this section that may be outstanding at any one time shall not, together with other outstanding indebtedness of the municipality, exceed the maximum limitations on bonded indebtedness of the municipality imposed by law. (3)As used in this section:(a)"Cost of any project" means the cost of land acquisition, demolition of buildings, land and site improvements, plans, surveys, appraisals, and all other costs relating to the acquisition, improvement, financing, and disposal of any project or any part of a project.(b)"Net project cost" means that term as defined in former section 110(f) of title 1 of the housing act of 1949.