CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2470: 

125.2470 Sec. 20.(1) If an authority specially assesses property, notice of hearings in the special assessment proceedings shall be given as provided in this section.(2)Notice of hearings in special assessment proceedings shall be given to the township clerk of each township where the authority district is located by first-class mail, not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing. Notice of hearings in special assessment proceedings shall also be given to each record owner of, or party in interest in, property to be assessed whose name appears upon the last township tax assessment records by first-class mail addressed to the record owner or party in interest at the address shown on the tax records, not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing. The last township tax assessment records means the last assessment roll for ad valorem tax purposes that was reviewed by the township board of review, as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or the addresses of the record owners or parties in interest listed on that roll. If a record owner's name does not appear on the township tax assessment records, notice shall be given by first-class mail addressed to the record owner at the address shown by the records of the county register of deeds not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing. Notice shall also be published twice before the hearing in a newspaper circulating in the township. The first publication shall be not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing.(3)If a person claims an interest in real property and his or her name and correct address do not appear upon the last township tax assessment records, that person shall file immediately his or her name and address with the township supervisor of the township where the property is located. This filing is effective only for the purpose of establishing a record of the names and addresses of those persons entitled to notice of hearings in the special assessment proceedings. The supervisor shall immediately enter on the tax assessment records any changes in the names and addresses of record owners or parties in interest filed with the supervisor and at all times shall keep the tax assessment records current, complete, and available for public inspection.(4)An authority officer whose duty is to give notice of hearings in special assessment proceedings may rely upon the last township tax assessment records and any filings under subsection (3) in giving notice of the hearing by mail. The method of giving notice by mail as provided in this section is the method that is reasonably certain to inform those to be assessed of the special assessment proceedings. (5)Failure to give notice as required in this section does not invalidate an entire assessment roll but only the assessment on property affected by the lack of notice. A special assessment is not invalid as to any property if the record owner or the party in interest of that property actually received notice, waived notice, or paid any part of the assessment. If an assessment is declared void by court judgment, a reassessment against the property may be made.