CHAPTER 450: CORPORATIONS (Corporations (Nonprofit Corp Act))
MCL 450.1412: 

450.1412 Sec. 412.(1)For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting of shareholders or an adjournment of a meeting, the bylaws may provide for fixing, or in the absence of a provision the board may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board. The date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of the meeting. If a record date is not fixed, the record date for determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if no notice is given, the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. When a determination of shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, the determination applies to any adjournment of the meeting, unless the board fixes a new record date under this section for the adjourned meeting.(2)For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to express consent to or to dissent from a proposal without a meeting, the bylaws may provide for fixing a record date, which shall not be more than 60 days before effectuation of the action proposed to be taken. In the absence of a provision, the board may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board and shall not be more than 10 days after the board resolution. If a record date is not fixed and prior action by the board is required with respect to the corporate action to be taken without a meeting, the record date shall be the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the board is adopted. If a record date is not fixed and prior action by the board is not required, the record date shall be the first date on which a signed written consent is delivered to the corporation as provided in section 407.(3)For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of a share dividend or distribution, or allotment of a right, or for the purpose of any other action, the bylaws may provide for fixing, or in the absence of a provision the board may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board. The date shall not be more than 60 days before the payment of the share dividend or distribution or allotment of a right or other action. If a record date is not fixed, the record date shall be the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the board relating to the corporate action is adopted.