CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2303: 

125.2303 Sec. 3.(1)The mobile home commission is created within the department of commerce. (2)The commission consists of 11 members appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the senate, each of whom shall be a citizen of this state.(3)The members of the commission shall include each of the following:(a)A representative of an organization whose membership consists of mobile home residents.(b)A representative of financial institutions.(c)Two operators of a licensed mobile home park having 100 or more sites and 1 operator of a licensed mobile home park having less than 100 sites.(d)A representative of organized labor.(e)An elected official of a local government.(f)A licensed mobile home dealer.(g)One resident of a licensed mobile home park having 100 or more sites and 1 resident of a licensed mobile home park having less than 100 sites.(h)A manufacturer of mobile homes.(4)A person appointed to be a member under subsection (3)(a), (d), (e), (g), or a member of that person's immediate family shall not have more than a 1% ownership interest in or income benefit from a manufacturer of mobile homes, a retail seller of mobile homes, a licensed mobile home park, or a supplier of ancillary products or services to the mobile home industry.(5)The term of each member shall be for 3 years. A vacancy in the office of a member shall be filled by the governor for the remainder of the unexpired term, not more than 1 month after the vacancy is created, in the same manner as the original appointment.(6)The per diem compensation of the commission and the schedule for reimbursement of expenses shall be established annually by the legislature.(7)Six members of the commission constitute a quorum for all purposes, notwithstanding the existence of a vacancy in the commission's membership. Action may be taken by the commission by a vote of a majority of the members appointed and serving. Meetings of the commission may be called by the chairperson or by 3 members on 3 business days' actual notice. At least 1 meeting shall be held each calendar quarter. The commission may hold meetings anywhere in this state.(8)The commission shall elect a member of the commission as its chairperson and another member as its vice-chairperson. The duties and powers of the chairperson and vice-chairperson shall be as prescribed in the commission's rules.(9)A member of the commission may be removed from office by the governor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or misconduct or malfeasance in office. A member of the commission who has a direct pecuniary interest in a matter before the commission shall disclose that interest before the commission taking action with respect to the matter, which disclosure shall become a part of the record of the commission's official proceedings.