CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2029b: 

125.2029b Sec. 29b.(1) The head of the office shall be the Michigan film commissioner. The commissioner shall be a member of the state classified service. The terms and conditions of the employment of the commissioner shall be governed by a senior executive service limited term employment agreement and the rules and regulations of the civil service commission governing the senior executive service. The term of the agreement shall not exceed 2 years and shall end on December 31 of an even-numbered year consistent with the rules and regulations of the civil service commission. The governor shall be the appointing authority for the commissioner. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the commissioner shall take and file the constitutional oath of office provided in section 1 of article XI of the state constitution of 1963.(2) The commissioner shall serve as an advisor to the governor on matters relating to films and other digital media. The commissioner may report directly to the governor and the president of the fund on matters relating to the office, to the council, and to films and digital media generally.(3) The commissioner shall supervise, and be responsible for, the performance of the functions of the office under this chapter. The commissioner shall perform all duties vested in the commissioner under the laws of this state. The commissioner shall consult with the president of the fund on activities of the office affecting the fund.(4) The commissioner shall attend the meetings of the council and provide the council and the president of the fund with regular reports and other information describing the activities of the office.(5) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the commissioner shall exercise his or her powers, duties, functions, and responsibilities under this chapter independently of the fund.(6) The commissioner may promulgate rules under the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328, as the commissioner deems necessary to execute the duties and responsibilities of the office.