CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4214: 

125.4214 Sec. 214.(1) When the authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement of the purposes of this part, the authority shall prepare and submit a tax increment financing plan to the governing body of the municipality. The plan shall include a development plan as provided in section 217, a detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure, the maximum amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred, and the duration of the program, and shall be in compliance with section 215. The plan shall contain a statement of the estimated impact of tax increment financing on the assessed values of all taxing jurisdictions in which the development area is located. The plan may provide for the use of part or all of the captured assessed value, but the portion intended to be used by the authority shall be clearly stated in the tax increment financing plan. The authority or municipality may exclude from captured assessed value growth in property value resulting solely from inflation. The plan shall set forth the method for excluding growth in property value resulting solely from inflation. (2) The percentage of taxes levied for school operating purposes that is captured and used by the tax increment financing plan shall not be greater than the plan's percentage capture and use of taxes levied by a municipality or county for operating purposes. For purposes of the previous sentence, taxes levied by a county for operating purposes include only millage allocated for county or charter county purposes under the property tax limitation act, 1933 PA 62, MCL 211.201 to 211.217a. For purposes of this subsection, tax increment revenues used to pay bonds issued by a municipality under section 216(1) shall be considered to be used by the tax increment financing plan rather than shared with the municipality. The limitation of this subsection does not apply to the portion of the captured assessed value shared pursuant to an agreement entered into before 1989 with a county or with a city in which an enterprise zone is approved under section 13 of the enterprise zone act, 1985 PA 224, MCL 125.2113.(3) Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall be pursuant to the notice, hearing, and disclosure provisions of section 218. If the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan, only 1 hearing and approval procedure is required for the 2 plans together.(4) Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the governing body shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the taxing jurisdictions levying taxes subject to capture to meet with the governing body. The authority shall fully inform the taxing jurisdictions of the fiscal and economic implications of the proposed development area. The taxing jurisdictions may present their recommendations at the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan. The authority may enter into agreements with the taxing jurisdictions and the governing body of the municipality in which the development area is located to share a portion of the captured assessed value of the district.(5) A tax increment financing plan may be modified if the modification is approved by the governing body upon notice and after public hearings and agreements as are required for approval of the original plan.(6) Under a tax increment financing plan that includes a catalyst development project, an authority may pledge available tax increment revenues of the authority as security for any bonds issued to develop and construct a catalyst development project.