CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2113: 

125.2113 Sec. 13.(1) Upon receipt of an application from a local governmental unit, the authority shall review the application and, by resolution, shall approve or reject the application based upon criteria set forth in this act. (2)If the authority rejects an application, the authority shall return the application to the local governmental unit along with the resolution of rejection that includes a statement of the reason for rejection. A local governmental unit may resubmit a rejected application.(3)If the authority approves the application, the local governmental unit has 2 years from date of approval to prepare a comprehensive development plan for the enterprise zone. The comprehensive development plan shall address the needs of the zone and include a strategy for achieving the goals of the zone. The comprehensive development plan shall contain all of the following:(a)A legal description of the enterprise zone, a description of the location and extent of existing streets and other public facilities within the zone, and a description of the location, character, and extent of the categories of public and private land uses existing and proposed for the enterprise zone, including residential, recreational, commercial, industrial, educational, and other uses.(b)A description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets, street levels, intersections, and utilities to be made in the enterprise zone.(c)A description of public improvements to be made in the enterprise zone, a description of any repairs and alterations necessary to make those improvements, and an estimate of the time by construction stage required for completion of the improvements. (d)An estimate of the cost of the proposed physical improvements, a statement of the proposed method of financing, and the ability of the local governmental unit to arrange the financing.(e)A description of any parts of the enterprise zone to be left as open space and the use contemplated for the space.(f)An environmental evaluation of each proposed enterprise zone.(g)A description of any real property in the enterprise zone that the local governmental unit desires to sell, donate, exchange, or lease to or from another entity and the proposed terms.(h)Estimates of the number of persons residing in the enterprise zone and the number of families and individuals to be displaced, if any, as a result of improvements. (i)Provision for the costs of relocating persons displaced by the zone improvements, and financial assistance and reimbursement of expenses, including litigation expenses and expenses incident to the transfer of title, in accordance with the standards and provisions of the uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition policies act of 1970, Public Law 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894, as well as a plan for compliance with Act No. 227 of the Public Acts of 1972, being sections 213.321 to 213.332 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.(j)A strategy for addressing the pre-employment training needs and employment of residents in the zone.(k)Other material that the local governmental unit or authority considers pertinent.(4)The governing body of the local governmental unit, before adoption of a resolution approving a comprehensive development plan, shall hold a public hearing on the development plan. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given by publication twice in a newspaper of general circulation designated by the local governmental unit, the first of which shall not be less than 20 days before the date set for the hearing. Notice shall also be mailed to all property owners of record in the development area not less than 20 days before the hearing.(5)After a public hearing on the comprehensive development plan, the governing body of the local governmental unit shall approve or reject the plan, or approve it with modification, by resolution. The local governmental unit shall then send the comprehensive development plan to the authority with a request for its approval.(6)After receipt of the comprehensive development plan, the authority shall approve or reject the plan. However, the authority shall reject the plan if it includes a project for which the expenditure of the local unit's funds has been prohibited by initiative ordinance. The authority shall reject the plan if it includes any funding for the construction of or infrastructure related to a sports facility seating 30,000 or more in maximum capacity which can be sold, leased, rented, donated, or otherwise provided to an organization with a direct financial interest in a professional sports team. If the authority rejects the plan, the authority shall return it to the governing body of the local governmental unit with a written explanation of its rejection. A rejected plan may be resubmitted. If the authority approves the plan, the authority shall send a formal notification of its approval to the governing body of the local governmental unit.(7)Upon plan approval by the authority, the local governmental unit may spend zone-related tax revenue on physical improvements within the zone.(8)The authority may revoke the approval of an enterprise zone if the local governmental unit fails to comply with this act.