CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.3843: 

125.3843 Sec. 43.(1) Before approving a proposed master plan, a planning commission shall hold not less than 1 public hearing on the proposed master plan. The hearing shall be held after the expiration of the deadline for comment under section 41(3). The planning commission shall give notice of the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the local unit of government. The planning commission shall also submit notice of the public hearing in the manner provided in section 39(3) to each entity described in section 39(2). This notice may accompany the proposed master plan submitted under section 41.(2) The approval of the proposed master plan shall be by resolution of the planning commission carried by the affirmative votes of not less than 2/3 of the members of a city or village planning commission or not less than a majority of the members of a township or county planning commission. The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps and descriptive and other matter intended by the planning commission to form the master plan. A statement recording the planning commission's approval of the master plan, signed by the chairperson or secretary of the planning commission, shall be included on the inside of the front or back cover of the master plan and, if the future land use map is a separate document from the text of the master plan, on the future land use map. Following approval of the proposed master plan by the planning commission, the secretary of the planning commission shall submit a copy of the master plan to the legislative body.(3) Approval of the proposed master plan by the planning commission under subsection (2) is the final step for adoption of the master plan, unless the legislative body by resolution has asserted the right to approve or reject the master plan. In that case, after approval of the proposed master plan by the planning commission, the legislative body shall approve or reject the proposed master plan. A statement recording the legislative body's approval of the master plan, signed by the clerk of the legislative body, shall be included on the inside of the front or back cover of the master plan and, if the future land use map is a separate document from the text of the master plan, on the future land use map.(4) If the legislative body rejects the proposed master plan, the legislative body shall submit to the planning commission a statement of its objections to the proposed master plan. The planning commission shall consider the legislative body's objections and revise the proposed master plan so as to address those objections. The procedures provided in subsections (1) to (3) and this subsection shall be repeated until the legislative body approves the proposed master plan.(5) Upon final adoption of the master plan, the secretary of the planning commission shall submit, in the manner provided in section 39(3), copies of the adopted master plan to the same entities to which copies of the proposed master plan were required to be submitted under section 41(2).