CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4313: 

125.4313 Sec. 313.(1) When the authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement of the purposes of this part, the authority shall prepare and submit a tax increment financing plan to the governing body. The plan shall be in compliance with section 314 and shall include a development plan as provided in section 316. The plan shall also contain the following:(a) A statement of the reasons that the plan will result in the development of captured assessed value that could not otherwise be expected. The reasons may include, but are not limited to, activities of the municipality, authority, or others undertaken before formulation or adoption of the plan in reasonable anticipation that the objectives of the plan would be achieved by some means.(b) An estimate of the captured assessed value for each year of the plan. The plan may provide for the use of part or all of the captured assessed value, but the portion intended to be used shall be clearly stated in the plan. The authority or municipality may exclude from captured assessed value growth in property value resulting solely from inflation. The plan shall set forth the method for excluding growth in property value resulting solely from inflation. The percentage of taxes levied for school operating purposes that is captured and used by the plan shall not be greater than the plan's percentage capture and use of taxes levied by a municipality or county for operating purposes. For purposes of the previous sentence, taxes levied by a county for operating purposes include only millage allocated for county or charter county purposes under the property tax limitation act, 1933 PA 62, MCL 211.201 to 211.217a. This limitation does not apply to the portion of the captured assessed value shared pursuant to an agreement entered into before 1989 with a county or with a city in which an enterprise zone is approved under section 13 of the enterprise zone act, 1985 PA 224, MCL 125.2113.(c) The estimated tax increment revenues for each year of the plan.(d) A detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure.(e) The maximum amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred.(f) The amount of operating and planning expenditures of the authority and municipality, the amount of advances extended by or indebtedness incurred by the municipality, and the amount of advances by others to be repaid from tax increment revenues. (g) The costs of the plan anticipated to be paid from tax increment revenues as received. (h) The duration of the development plan and the tax increment plan.(i) An estimate of the impact of tax increment financing on the revenues of all taxing jurisdictions in which the development area is located.(2) Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall be in accordance with the notice, hearing, disclosure, and approval provisions of sections 317 and 318. When the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan, only 1 hearing and approval procedure is required for the 2 plans together.(3) Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the governing body shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the taxing jurisdictions in which the development is located to express their views and recommendations regarding the tax increment financing plan. The authority shall fully inform the taxing jurisdictions about the fiscal and economic implications of the proposed tax increment financing plan. The taxing jurisdictions may present their recommendations at the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan. The authority may enter into agreements with the taxing jurisdictions and the governing body of the municipality in which the development area is located to share a portion of the captured assessed value of the district.