CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1508b: 

125.1508b Sec. 8b.(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the director is responsible for administration and enforcement of this act and the code. A governmental subdivision may by ordinance assume responsibility for administration and enforcement of this act within its political boundary. A county ordinance adopted pursuant to this act shall be adopted by the county board of commissioners and shall be signed by the chairperson of the county board of commissioners and certified by the county clerk.(2) A governmental subdivision that has assumed the responsibility for administering and enforcing this act and the code may, through its chief legal officer, issue a complaint and obtain a warrant for a violation of this act or the code and prosecute the violation with the same power and authority it possesses in prosecuting a local ordinance violation. If pursuant to section 23, a governmental subdivision has by ordinance designated a violation of the act or code as a municipal civil infraction, the governmental subdivision may issue a citation or municipal ordinance violation notice pursuant to chapter 87 of the revised judicature act of 1961, 1961 PA 236, MCL 600.8701 to 600.8735, for a violation of the act or code. Unless otherwise provided by local law or ordinance, the legislative body of a governmental subdivision responsible for administration and enforcement of this act and the code shall designate an enforcing agency that shall discharge the responsibilities of the governmental subdivision under this act. Governmental subdivisions may provide by agreement for joint enforcement of this act.(3) Subject to the other provisions of this act, an enforcing agency is any official or agent of a governmental subdivision that is registered under article 10 of the skilled trades regulation act, MCL 339.6001 to 339.6023, and qualified by experience or training to perform the duties associated with construction code administration and enforcement.(4) Before December 28, 1999, the director shall provide each governmental subdivision administering and enforcing this act and the code with a notice of intent form. This form shall set forth the date return receipt is required, which date shall not be less than 60 days. The chief elected official of the governmental subdivision that receives this notice shall indicate on the form the intention of the governmental subdivision as to whether it shall continue to administer and enforce this act and the code and transmit this notice to the director within the prescribed period. If a governmental subdivision fails to submit a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code within the date set forth in the notice, the director shall send a notice by registered mail to the clerk of that governmental subdivision. This notice shall indicate that the governmental subdivision has 15 additional days in which to submit a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code. If the governmental subdivision does not respond by the end of the 15 additional days, it shall be conclusively presumed that the governmental subdivision does not intend to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code and the director shall assume the responsibility for administering and enforcing this act and the code in that governmental subdivision, unless the county within which the governmental subdivision is located submits a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code.(5) A county that is administering and enforcing this act and the code on December 28, 1999 and that submits a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code pursuant to subsection (4) is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code for each governmental subdivision within the county that does not submit a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code. The director shall notify the county of those governmental subdivisions that do not submit a notice of intent.(6) A governmental subdivision that, before December 28, 1999, did not administer and enforce this act and the code may elect to assume the responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code pursuant to subsection (1) by the passage of an ordinance to that effect. A governmental subdivision that makes this election after December 28, 1999 shall submit, in addition to the ordinance, an application to the commission for approval to administer and enforce this act and the code within its jurisdiction. This application shall be made on the proper form to be provided by the commission. The standards for approval shall include, but not be limited to, the certification by the governmental subdivision that the enforcing agency is qualified by experience or training to administer and enforce this act and the code and all related acts and rules, that agency personnel are provided as necessary, that administrative services are provided, that plan review services are provided, and that timely field inspection services will be provided. The director shall seek additional information if the director considers it necessary. The commission shall render a decision on the application for approval to administer and enforce this act and the code and transmit its findings to the governmental subdivision within 90 days of receipt of the application. The commission shall document its reasons, if the commission disapproves an application. A governmental subdivision that receives a disapproval may resubmit its application for approval. Upon receipt of approval from the commission for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code, the governmental subdivision shall administer and enforce this act and the code within its jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of this act and the application.(7) A governmental subdivision that elects to administer and enforce this act and the code within its jurisdiction by the adoption of an ordinance may rescind that ordinance and transfer the responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code to the director. The director shall assume the responsibility for administering and enforcing this act and the code in that governmental subdivision, unless the county within which that governmental subdivision is located has submitted a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce the code. However, that action shall not take effect until 12 months after the passage of an ordinance to that effect. A structure commenced under an effective code shall be completed under that code.(8) The director is responsible for administration and enforcement of this act and the code for buildings and structures that are not under the responsibility of an enforcing agency in those governmental subdivisions that elect to administer and enforce this act and the code. A building or structure owned by the state shall not be erected, remodeled, or reconstructed in the state, except school buildings or facilities or institutions of higher education as described in section 4 of article VIII of the state constitution of 1963, until written approval of the plans and specifications has been obtained from the bureau of construction codes and safety located within the department indicating that the state owned facilities shall be designed and constructed in conformance with the state construction code. The bureau of construction codes and safety shall be the lead agency in the coordination and implementation of this subsection. The bureau of construction codes and safety shall perform required plan reviews and inspections as required by the state construction code. Each department shall secure required plan approvals and permits from the bureau. Fees charged by the bureau for permits shall be in accordance with the commission's approved schedule of fees. State departments and institutions may allow local inspectors to inspect the construction of state owned facilities. However, an inspection conducted by a local inspector shall be of an advisory nature only.(9) This section does not affect the responsibilities of the commission for administration and enforcement of this act under other sections of this act, or responsibilities under the fire prevention code, 1941 PA 207, MCL 29.1 to 29.33; 1937 PA 306, MCL 388.851 to 388.855a; the firefighters training council act of 1966, 1966 PA 291, MCL 29.361 to 29.377; 1942 (1st Ex Sess) PA 9, MCL 419.201 to 419.205; parts 215 and 217 of the public health code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.21501 to 333.21799e; and section 58 of the social welfare act, 1939 PA 280, MCL 400.58.(10) Pursuant to parts 215 and 217 of the public health code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.21501 to 333.21799e, the director shall develop consistent construction standards for hospitals and nursing homes. These standards shall ensure that consistent, uniform, and equitable construction requirements and state supervision of the requirements are achieved. This subsection does not preclude a state agency or a governmental subdivision from conducting plan reviews or inspections necessary to ensure compliance with approved construction plans.(11) Except as otherwise provided in this act, this act does not limit or restrict existing powers or authority of governmental subdivisions, and this act shall be enforced by governmental subdivisions in the manner prescribed by local law or ordinance. To the extent not inconsistent with this act, local laws and ordinances relating to administration and enforcement of construction regulations enacted before the effective date of the code by or for a governmental subdivision are applicable to administration and enforcement of the code in that governmental subdivision.