CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1421: 

125.1421 Sec. 21.(1) There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Michigan state housing development authority". The authority shall consist of 3 heads of principal departments of the executive branch of the state government and 4 persons appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the senate. Excluding the 3 heads of principal departments of the executive branch of state government and the designated resident member described in subsection (2), not more than 2 of the individuals appointed shall be members of the same political party. Upon completion of each term, an individual shall be appointed for a term of 4 years, except that a vacancy must be filled for the unexpired term. A member of the authority shall not receive compensation for services but is entitled to the necessary expenses, including traveling expenses, incurred in the discharge of the member's duties. Each member shall hold office until a successor has been appointed and has qualified. A certificate of appointment or reappointment of a member must be filed with the authority and this certificate is conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of that member.(2) If federal law requires designation of a resident member on the authority, the number of gubernatorially appointed members, in addition to the 3 heads of principal departments, increases from 4 to 5. One of the 5 gubernatorially appointed members shall be the designated resident member. The resident member shall meet both of the following requirements:(a) The individual is an individual that is directly assisted by a federal housing program administered through the authority. As used in this subdivision, "directly assisted" means residing in federally supported public housing or receiving section 8 tenant-based assistance. Directly assisted does not include a state-financed housing assistance program, section 8 project-based assistance, or section 8 new construction assistance.(b) The individual is an eligible resident. As used in this subdivision, "eligible resident" means an individual whose name appears on the lease of the assisted housing and who is 18 years of age or older.(3) An individual who no longer meets either requirement of subsection (2)(a) or (b) is removed from the authority for cause upon the appointment of another individual to the resident member position.(4) The powers of the authority are vested in the members in office. A majority of the members of the authority constitutes a quorum for the purpose of conducting the authority's business, for exercising the authority's powers, and for other purposes, notwithstanding the existence of any vacancies. Action may be taken by the authority upon a vote of a majority of the members present, unless the bylaws of the authority require a larger number. The resident member shall not take part in, vote on, or exercise the powers of the authority in a matter that uniquely applies to the resident member and is not generally applicable to all residents. In the absence of fraud, a determination of the authority with respect to findings of fact made by the authority acting within the scope of its powers is conclusive, except with respect to the approval of the municipal finance commission or its successor agency as required by law.(5) Meetings of the members of the authority may be held anywhere in this state. The business that the authority may perform must be conducted at a public meeting of the authority held in compliance with the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting must be given in the manner required by the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275.(6) The authority shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson. The authority shall employ an executive director, legal and technical experts, and other officers, agents, and employees, permanent and temporary, as the authority requires, and shall determine their qualifications, duties, and compensation. The authority may delegate to 1 or more agents or employees those powers or duties as the authority considers proper.(7) The authority shall be within the department of labor and economic opportunity and shall exercise the authority's prescribed statutory powers, duties, and functions independently of the head of that department. However, the budgeting, procurement, and related functions of the authority must be performed under the direction and supervision of the director of the department of labor and economic opportunity.(8) As used in this section, "section 8" means section 8 of the United States housing act of 1937, 42 USC 1437f.