CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1522: 

125.1522 Sec. 22.(1)The legislative body of a governmental subdivision shall establish reasonable fees to be charged by the governmental subdivision for acts and services performed by the enforcing agency or construction board of appeals under this act, which fees shall be intended to bear a reasonable relation to the cost, including overhead, to the governmental subdivision of the acts and services, including, without limitation, those services and acts as, in case of an enforcing agency, issuance of building permits, examination of plans and specifications, inspection of construction undertaken pursuant to a building permit, and the issuance of certificates of use and occupancy, and, in case of a board of appeals, hearing appeals in accordance with this act. The enforcing agency shall collect the fees established under this subsection. The legislative body of a governmental subdivision shall only use fees generated under this section for the operation of the enforcing agency or the construction board of appeals, or both, and shall not use the fees for any other purpose.(2)To accomplish the objectives of this section and this act, a state construction code fund is created. The director, after approval by the commission and following a public hearing held by the commission, shall establish reasonable fees to be charged by the commission for acts and services performed by the commission including, without limitation, inspection of plans and specifications, issuance of certificates of acceptability, testing and evaluation of new products, methods and processes of construction or alteration, issuance of building permits, inspection of construction undertaken pursuant to a building permit, the issuance of certificates of use and occupancy, and hearing of appeals. Fees established by the department shall be intended to bear a reasonable relation to the cost, including overhead, of the service or act. Until the director establishes fees pursuant to this act, the fees established pursuant to this subsection shall remain in effect. The state treasurer shall be the custodian of the fund and may invest the surplus of the fund in investments as in the state treasurer's judgment are in the best interest of the fund. Earnings from those investments shall be credited to the fund. The state treasurer shall notify the director and the legislature of interest credited and the balance of the fund as of September 30 of each year. The director shall supervise and administer the fund. Fees received by the department and money collected under this act shall be deposited in the state construction code fund and shall be appropriated by the legislature for the operation of the bureau of construction codes, and indirect overhead expenses in the department. Funds that are unexpended at the end of each fiscal year shall be returned to the state construction code fund. A self-supporting fund shall be established within the commission to provide for the purchase and sale of codes and standards to the general public.