CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.482: 

125.482 Sec. 82.Supervision and safety provisions. In any multiple dwelling housing more than 8 families, in which the owner thereof does not reside, there shall be a responsible person, or persons, designated as such by the owner. Every multiple dwelling of class "b" containing over 75 sleeping rooms or sleeping accommodations for 150 persons or more above the first floor, which is not of fireproof construction, or not protected with an approved sprinkler system or an approved and self supervised and properly maintained automatic fire alarm system, shall have adequate watch service, reporting each 1 hour between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on each floor at locations designated by the enforcing official on a suitable recording device.In addition every multiple dwelling of class "b", not of fireproof construction, or not protected with an approved sprinkler system or an approved and self supervised and properly maintained automatic fire alarm system, having sleeping accommodations for over 50 persons above the first floor, shall have on duty at all times at least 1 employe and more if necessary, so that there shall be 1 employe on duty at all times for each 100 persons, or major fraction thereof, of the normal capacity of the building. In all multiple dwellings of class "b", not of fireproof construction, having sleeping accommodations for over 25 persons there shall be provided a bell, gong, siren or other approved alarm, of sufficient size and adequacy to be heard in every room or apartment of the building by a person of normal auditory perception, on each floor of the building, such warning device to be manually controlled from locations designated by the enforcing official.All employes of multiple dwellings shall be regularly instructed and drilled relative to the proper proceeding in case of fire or panic by a person whose qualifications are approved by the enforcing officer. All employes of multiple dwellings shall be instructed as to the location of the fire alarm boxes or other devices for notifying the fire department. In case of fire in the building it shall be the duty of such employes to forthwith and immediately notify the fire department of the existence of such fire through the surest and quickest means of notification available. Such employes shall then proceed to warn or notify the occupants of the building of the existence of such fire and to assist them in the immediate evacuation of the building in the quickest and safest manner possible.The owners or manager of every multiple dwelling of class "b" shall maintain a register or list of guests and tenants which shall be kept and safeguarded so as to be available at all times.