CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1994: EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER

125.1994 WHEREAS, Section 1 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 vests the executive power of the state of Michigan in the Governor; andWHEREAS, Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 empowers the Governor to make changes in the organization of the Executive Branch or in the assignment of functions among its units which the Governor considers necessary for efficient administration; andWHEREAS, there is a continued need to reorganize the functions among state departments to ensure efficient administration; andWHEREAS, programs, agencies, and commissions should be placed among the principal departments on a consistent, logical basis in order to ensure the most efficient use of taxpayer dollars and more streamlined services;NOW, THEREFORE, I, Richard D. Snyder, Governor of the state of Michigan, pursuant to the powers vested in me by the Constitution of the state of Michigan of 1963 and the laws of the state of Michigan, order the following:I. MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUNDA. Michigan Economic Growth Authority1. All the authority, powers, duties, functions, responsibilities, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds of the Michigan Economic Growth Authority created under the Michigan Economic Growth Authority Act, 1995 PA 24, MCL 207.801 to 207.810, are transferred to the Michigan Strategic Fund Board.2. The Michigan Economic Growth Authority is abolished.B. Michigan Next Energy Authority1. All the authority, powers, duties, functions, responsibilities, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds of the Michigan Next Energy Authority and the Michigan Next Energy Authority Board, created under the Michigan Next Energy Authority Act, 2002 PA 593, MCL 207.821 to 207.827 are transferred to the Michigan Strategic Fund Board.2. The Michigan Next Energy Authority and the Michigan Next Energy Authority Board are abolished.C. The President of the Michigan Strategic Fund shall provide executive direction and supervision for the implementation of all transfers of functions under Section I of this Order and shall make internal organizational changes as necessary to complete the transfers under Section I of this Order.D. The functions transferred under Section I of this Order shall be administered by the President of the Michigan Strategic Fund in such ways as to promote efficient administration.II. DEPARTMENT OF LICENSING AND REGULATORY AFFAIRSA. Prevailing Wage on State Projects ActAny authority, powers, duties, functions, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds, including the functions of budgeting and procurement relative to prevailing wages on state projects created by the Prevailing Wages on State Projects Act, 1965 PA 166, as amended, MCL 408.551 to 408.558, are transferred from the Michigan Strategic Fund to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.B. Non-Incorporated Private Educational Institutions ActAny authority, powers, duties, functions, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds, including the functions of budgeting and procurement relative to Sections 1 and 2 of the Non-Incorporated Private Educational Institutions Act, 1964 PA 142, MCL 390.771 to 390.772, regarding non-incorporated privately operated post-secondary institutions are transferred from the Michigan Strategic Fund to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.C. Religious College Aspects of the Michigan General Corporations ActAny authority, powers, duties, functions, records, personnel, property, unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations or other funds, including the functions of budgeting and procurement relative to Section 184a of the Michigan General Corporations Act, 1931 PA 327, MCL 450.184a, regarding organization and operation of a religious college by an ecclesiastical corporation are transferred from the Michigan Strategic Fund to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.D. Implementation of Transfers1. The Director of the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, after consultation with the President of the Michigan Strategic Fund, shall provide executive direction and supervision for the implementation of all transfers of authority to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs made by Section II of this Order.2. The Director of the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs shall administer the assigned functions transferred under Section II of this Order in such ways as to promote efficient administration and shall make internal organizational changes as may be administratively necessary to complete the realignment of responsibilities as prescribed in Section II of this Order.3. The Director of the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and the President of the Michigan Strategic Fund shall immediately initiate coordination to facilitate the transfers and develop a memorandum of record identifying any pending settlements, issues of compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, or other obligations to be resolved related to the authority to be transferred by Section II of this Order.III. MISCELLANEOUSA. Any suit, action, or other proceeding lawfully commenced by, against, or before any entity affected by this Order shall not abate by reason of the taking effect of this Order. Any lawfully commenced suit, action, or other proceeding may be maintained by, against, or before the appropriate successor of any entity affected by this Order.B. All rules, orders, contracts, plans, and agreements relating to the functions transferred to the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and the Michigan Strategic Fund by this order lawfully adopted prior to the effective date of this Order shall continue to be effective until revised, amended, or rescinded.C. The invalidity of any portion of this Order shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the Order, which may be given effect without any invalid portion. Any portion of this order found invalid by a court or other entity with proper jurisdiction shall be severable from the remaining portions of the Order.In fulfillment of the requirements of Section 2 of Article V of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, the provisions of this Order shall be effective 60 days after the filing of this Order. E.R.O. No. 2014-6 EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION ORDER