CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4715: 

125.4715 Sec. 715.(1) If the authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement of the purposes of this part, the authority shall prepare and submit a tax increment financing plan to the governing body of the municipality. The plan shall include a development plan as provided in section 718, a detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure, the maximum amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred, and the duration of the program, and shall be in compliance with section 716. The plan shall contain a statement of the estimated impact of tax increment financing on the assessed values of all taxing jurisdictions in which the development area is located. The plan may provide for the use of part or all of the captured assessed value, but the portion intended to be used by the authority shall be clearly stated in the tax increment financing plan. The authority or municipality may exclude from captured assessed value growth in property value resulting solely from inflation. The plan shall set forth the method for excluding growth in property value resulting solely from inflation.(2) Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall comply with the notice, hearing, and disclosure provisions of section 821. If the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan, only 1 hearing and approval procedure is required for the 2 plans together.(3) Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the governing body shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the taxing jurisdictions levying taxes subject to capture to meet with the governing body. The authority shall fully inform the taxing jurisdictions of the fiscal and economic implications of the proposed development area. The taxing jurisdictions may present their recommendations at the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan. The authority may enter into agreements with the taxing jurisdictions and the governing body of the municipality in which the development area is located to share a portion of the captured assessed value of the development area.(4) A tax increment financing plan may be modified if the modification is approved by the governing body upon notice and after public hearings and agreements as are required for approval of the original plan.(5) Not more than 60 days after the public hearing, the governing body in a taxing jurisdiction levying ad valorem property taxes that would otherwise be subject to capture may exempt its taxes from capture by adopting a resolution to that effect and filing a copy with the clerk of the municipality proposing to create the authority. In the event that the governing body levies a separate millage for public library purposes, at the request of the public library board, that separate millage shall be exempt from the capture. The resolution shall take effect when filed with the clerk and remains effective until a copy of a resolution rescinding that resolution is filed with that clerk. If a separate millage for public library purposes was levied before January 1, 2017, and all obligations of the authority are paid, then the levy is exempt from capture under this part, unless the library board or commission allows all or a portion of its taxes levied to be included as tax increment revenues and subject to capture under this part under the terms of a written agreement between the library board or commission and the authority. The written agreement shall be filed with the clerk of the municipality. However, if a separate millage for public library purposes was levied before January 1, 2017, and the authority alters or amends the boundaries of the district or extends the duration of the existing finance plan, then the library board or commission may, not later than 60 days after a public hearing is held under this subsection, exempt all or a portion of its taxes from capture by adopting a resolution to that effect and filing a copy with the clerk of the municipality that created the authority. For ad valorem property taxes or specific local taxes attributable to those ad valorem property taxes levied for a separate millage for public library purposes approved by the electors after December 31, 2016, a library board or commission may allow all or a portion of its taxes levied to be included as tax increment revenues and subject to capture under this part under the terms of a written agreement between the library board or commission and the authority. The written agreement shall be filed with the clerk of the municipality. However, if the library was created under section 1 or 10a of 1877 PA 164, MCL 397.201 and 397.210a, or established under 1869 LA 233, then any action of the library board or commission under this subsection shall have the concurrence of the chief executive officer of the city that created the library to be effective.