CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1503a: 

125.1503a Sec. 3a.(1) The state construction code commission is created and consists of the state fire marshal or an employee of the bureau of fire services created in section 1b of the fire prevention code, 1941 PA 207, MCL 29.1b, designated by the state fire marshal and a designee of the chairpersons of the barrier free design board, the electrical administrative board, the state plumbing board, and the board of mechanical rules, who shall be permanent members, and 12 residents of the state to be appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the senate. Appointed members of the commission shall include 1 person from each of the fields of industrial management, architecture, professional engineering, building contracting, organized labor, premanufactured building, and 3 members representing municipal building inspection; 2 persons from the general public; and a licensed residential builder. A member of the commission appointed by the governor before January 1, 2007 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years, except that a vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term. A member of the commission appointed by the governor after December 31, 2006 shall be appointed for a term of 4 years, except that a vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term. A member of the commission may be removed from office by the governor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or misconduct or malfeasance in office. A member of the commission who has a pecuniary interest in a matter before the commission shall disclose the interest before the commission takes action in the matter, which disclosures shall be made a matter of record in its official proceedings. Each member of the commission, except the state fire marshal or the state fire marshal's designee, shall receive reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by the member in the performance of the duties as a member of the commission, subject to available appropriations. (2) Nine members of the commission constitute a quorum. Except as otherwise provided in the commission's bylaws, action may be taken by the commission by vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting. Meetings of the commission may be called by the chairperson or by 3 members on 10 days' written notice. Not less than 1 meeting shall be held each calendar quarter. A meeting of the commission may be held anywhere in this state.(3) The commission may elect 1 member as vice-chairperson, and other officers as it determines appropriate, for the terms and with the duties and powers as the commission determines. The vice-chairperson and other officers of the commission shall be elected from those members appointed to the commission by the governor. After December 31, 2006, the governor shall designate a member of the commission to serve as chairperson at the pleasure of the governor.(4) The commission is within the department but shall exercise its statutory functions independently of the director, except that budgeting, personnel, and procurement functions of the commission shall be performed under the direction and supervision of the director. The director has the sole statutory authority to promulgate rules.(5) The business that the commission may perform shall be conducted at a public meeting of the commission held in compliance with the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting shall be given in the manner required by the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275.(6) A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by the commission in the performance of an official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246.