CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4620: 

125.4620 Sec. 620.(1) The municipality may by resolution of its governing body authorize, issue, and sell limited general obligation bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this subsection to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan and shall pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of the bonds. The municipality may pledge as additional security for the bonds any money received by the authority or the municipality under section 614. The bonds are subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821. Before the municipality may authorize the borrowing, the authority shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenues and other revenue available under section 614 to be available for payment of principal and interest on the bonds, to the governing body of the municipality. This estimate shall be approved by the governing body of the municipality by resolution adopted by majority vote of the members of the governing body in the resolution authorizing the bonds. If the governing body of the municipality adopts the resolution authorizing the bonds, the estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenues and other revenue available under section 614 to be available for payment of principal and interest on the bonds shall be conclusive for purposes of this section. The bonds issued under this subsection shall be considered a single series for the purposes of the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821.(2) By resolution of its governing body, the authority may authorize, issue, and sell tax increment bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this subsection to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan. The tax increment bonds issued by the authority under this subsection shall pledge solely the tax increment revenues of a development area in which the project is located or a development area from which tax increment revenues may be used for this project, or both. In addition or in the alternative, the bonds issued by the authority under this subsection may be secured by any other revenues identified in section 614 as sources of financing for activities of the authority that the authority shall specifically pledge in the resolution. However, the full faith and credit of the municipality shall not be pledged to secure bonds issued under this subsection. The bond issue may include a sum sufficient to pay interest on the tax increment bonds until full development of tax increment revenues from the project and also a sum to provide a reasonable reserve for payment of principal and interest on the bonds. The resolution authorizing the bonds shall create a lien on the tax increment revenues and other revenues pledged by the resolution that shall be a statutory lien and shall be a first lien subject only to liens previously created. The resolution may provide the terms upon which additional bonds may be issued of equal standing and parity of lien as to the tax increment revenues and other revenues pledged under the resolution. Bonds issued under this subsection that pledge revenue received under section 615 for repayment of the bonds are subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA 34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821.