CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2656: 

125.2656 Sec. 6.(1)The board may employ and fix the compensation of a director of the authority, subject to the approval of the governing body creating the authority. The director shall serve at the pleasure of the board. A member of the board is not eligible to hold the position of director. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the director shall take and subscribe to the oath of office provided in section 1 of article XI of the state constitution of 1963 and shall furnish bond by posting a bond in the sum specified in the resolution establishing the authority. The bond shall be payable to the authority for the use and benefit of the authority, approved by the board, and filed with the clerk of the municipality. The premium on the bond shall be considered an operating expense of the authority, payable from funds available to the authority for expenses of operation. The director shall be the chief officer of the authority. Subject to the approval of the board, the director shall supervise and be responsible for the preparation of plans and the performance of the functions of the authority in the manner authorized by this act. The director shall attend the meetings of the board and shall render to the board and to the governing body a regular report covering the activities and financial condition of the authority. If the director is absent or disabled, the board may designate a qualified person as acting director to perform the duties of the office. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the acting director shall take and subscribe to the oath of office referenced in this subsection and furnish bond as required of the director. The director shall furnish the board with information or reports governing the operation of the authority, as the board requires.(2)The board may appoint or employ and fix the compensation of a treasurer who shall keep the financial records of the authority and who, together with the director, if a director is appointed, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of funds of the authority. The treasurer shall perform other duties as may be delegated by the board and shall furnish bond in an amount as prescribed by the board.(3)The board may appoint or employ and fix the compensation of a secretary who shall maintain custody of the official seal and of records, books, documents, or other papers not required to be maintained by the treasurer. The secretary shall attend meetings of the board and keep a record of its proceedings and shall perform other duties as may be delegated by the board.(4)The board may employ and retain personnel and consultants as considered necessary by the board, including legal counsel to advise the board in the proper performance of its duties and to represent the authority in actions brought by or against the authority.(5)Upon request of the authority, the municipality may provide assistance to the authority in the performance of its powers and duties.(6)The employees of an authority may be eligible to participate in municipal retirement and insurance programs of the municipality as if they were civil service employees on the same basis as civil service employees.