CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4609: 

125.4609 Sec. 609.(1) The board may employ and fix the compensation of a director, subject to the approval of the governing body of the municipality. The director shall serve at the pleasure of the board. A member of the board is not eligible to hold the position of director. Before beginning his or her duties, the director shall take and subscribe to the constitutional oath, and furnish bond, by posting a bond in the sum determined in the resolution establishing the authority payable to the authority for use and benefit of the authority, approved by the board, and filed with the municipal clerk. The premium on the bond shall be considered an operating expense of the authority, payable from funds available to the authority for expenses of operation. The director shall be the chief executive officer of the authority. Subject to the approval of the board, the director shall supervise and be responsible for the preparation of plans and the performance of the functions of the authority in the manner authorized by this part. The director shall attend the meetings of the board and shall provide to the board and to the governing body of the municipality a regular report covering the activities and financial condition of the authority. If the director is absent or disabled, the board may designate a qualified person as acting director to perform the duties of the office. Before beginning his or her duties, the acting director shall take and subscribe to the oath, and furnish bond, as required of the director. The director shall furnish the board with information or reports governing the operation of the authority as the board requires.(2) The board may employ and fix the compensation of a treasurer, who shall keep the financial records of the authority and who, together with the director, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of funds of the authority. The treasurer shall perform all duties delegated to him or her by the board and shall furnish bond in an amount prescribed by the board.(3) The board may employ and fix the compensation of a secretary, who shall maintain custody of the official seal and of records, books, documents, or other papers not required to be maintained by the treasurer. The secretary shall attend meetings of the board and keep a record of its proceedings and shall perform other duties delegated by the board.(4) The board may retain legal counsel to advise the board in the proper performance of its duties. The legal counsel shall represent the authority in actions brought by or against the authority.(5) The board may employ other personnel considered necessary by the board.