CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1508a: 

125.1508a Sec. 8a.(1)This act and the code apply throughout the state.(2)Within 10 days after the effective date of this subsection, the director shall provide a notice of intent form to all governmental subdivisions administering and enforcing a nationally recognized model code other than the code established by the commission under this act. This form shall set forth the date return receipt is required, which date shall not be less than 60 days after receipt. The chief elected official of the governmental subdivision that receives this notice shall indicate on the form the intention of the governmental subdivision as to whether it shall administer and enforce the code and transmit this notice to the director within the prescribed period. If a governmental subdivision fails to submit a notice of intent to administer and enforce the code within the date set forth in the notice, the director shall send a notice by registered mail to the clerk of that governmental subdivision. The registered notice shall indicate that the governmental subdivision has 15 additional days in which to submit a notice of intent to administer and enforce the code. If the governmental subdivision does not respond by the end of the 15 additional days, it shall be conclusively presumed that the governmental subdivision does not intend to administer and enforce the code, and the director shall assume the responsibility for administering and enforcing this act and the code in that governmental subdivision, unless the county within which that governmental subdivision is located has submitted a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce this act and the code. Governmental subdivisions may provide by agreement for joint enforcement of the code.(3)A governmental subdivision that has elected to assume responsibility for the administration and enforcement of this act and the code, and has submitted a notice of intent to continue to administer and enforce the code to the director pursuant to section 8b, after the effective date of this subsection, may reverse that election.(4)A governmental subdivision that, before the effective date of this subsection, has elected to exempt itself pursuant to section 8(1) may reverse that election, making itself subject to the act and the code. However, that action shall not take effect until 60 days after passage of an ordinance to that effect. A structure commenced under an effective code shall be completed under that code.(5)A governmental subdivision that, before the effective date of this subsection, has not administered and enforced either this act and the code or another nationally recognized model code may elect to enforce this act and the code pursuant to subsection (1) by the passage of an ordinance to that effect. A governmental subdivision that makes this election after the effective date of this subsection shall submit, in addition to the ordinance, an application to the commission for approval to administer and enforce that code within its jurisdiction. This application shall be made on the proper form to be provided by the commission. The standards for approval shall include, but not be limited to, the certification by the governmental subdivision that the enforcing agency is qualified by experience or training to administer and enforce the code and all related acts and rules, that agency personnel are provided as necessary, administrative services are provided, plan review services are provided, and timely field inspection services shall be provided. The director shall seek additional information if the director considers it necessary. The commission shall render a decision on the application for approval to administer and enforce the code that has been adopted and transmit its findings to that governmental subdivision within 90 days of receipt of the application. The commission shall document its reasons if the commission disapproves an application. A governmental subdivision that receives a disapproval may resubmit its application for approval. Upon receipt of approval from the commission for the administration and enforcement of the code, the governmental subdivision shall administer and enforce the code within its jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of its approved application.(6)The code or any of its sections shall take effect 6 months after the code's initial promulgation. The 6-month delay does not apply to rules promulgated to implement sections 13a, 13b, 13c, 19, and 21 and the requirements of barrier free design and energy conservation of this act and code. The 6-month delay does not apply to amendments to the code or any of the code's sections after the initial promulgation.(7)The standards for premanufactured housing shall not be less than the standards required for nonpremanufactured housing, except that manufactured homes labeled pursuant to the national manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974, title VI of the housing and community development act of 1974, Public Law 93-383, 42 U.S.C. 5401 to 5426, shall be considered to have complied with this requirement.(8)The commission may limit the application of a part of the code to include or exclude the following:(a)Specified classes or types of buildings or structures, according to use, or other distinctions as may make differentiation or separate classification or regulation necessary, proper, or desirable. The commission shall consider the specific problems of the construction or alteration of a single family, owner-occupied recreational dwelling that is located in a sparsely populated area and that is to be occupied on a part-time basis.(b)Specified areas of the state based on size, population density, special conditions prevailing in the area, or other factors as may make differentiation or separate classification or regulation necessary, proper, or desirable.(9)A building or structure that has baby changing stations in the women's restrooms shall have baby changing stations in the men's restrooms.(10)The code shall provide, where appropriate, for standards involving location and construction of ratwalls that are not less than those standards in existence on the effective date of this section.