CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1512: 

125.1512 Sec. 12.(1) An enforcing agency shall periodically inspect all construction undertaken pursuant to a building permit issued by it to insure that the construction is performed in accordance with conditions of the building permit and is consistent with requirements of the code and other applicable laws and ordinances.(2)The owner of premises on which a building or structure is being constructed is deemed to have consented to inspection by the enforcing agency and the commission of the entire premises and of any construction being performed on it until a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued. An inspector, or team of inspectors, on presentation of proper credentials, may enter and inspect the premises and construction thereon, for purposes of insuring compliance with the building permit, the code and other applicable laws and regulations. An inspection shall be made between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. on business days, or when construction is actually being undertaken, except if the enforcing agency has probable cause to believe that an immediate danger to life, limb or property exists, or except with permission of an owner, or his agent, architect, engineer or builder. An inspection pursuant to this section shall be solely for purposes of enforcing this act and other laws and ordinances related to construction of buildings and structures. A person other than the owner, his agent, architect, engineer or builder shall not accompany an inspector or team of inspectors on an inspection, unless his presence is necessary for the enforcement of this act, or other laws and ordinances related to construction of the building or structure, or except with the consent of an owner, or his agent, architect, engineer or builder.(3)If construction is being undertaken contrary to a building permit, this act, or other applicable laws or ordinances, the enforcing agency shall give written notice to the holder of the building permit, or if a permit has not been issued then to the person doing the construction, notifying him of the violation of this act, or other applicable laws and ordinances, and to appear and show cause why the construction should not be stopped. If the person doing the construction is not known, or cannot be located with reasonable effort, the notice may be delivered to the person in charge of, or apparently in charge of, the construction. If the holder of the permit or the person doing the construction fails to appear and show good cause within 1 full working day after notice is delivered, the enforcing agency shall cause a written order to stop construction to be posted on the premises. A person shall not continue, or cause or allow to be continued, construction in violation of a stop construction order, except with permission of the enforcing agency to abate the dangerous condition or remove the violation, or except by court order. If an order to stop construction is not obeyed, the enforcing agency may apply to the circuit court for the county in which the premises are located for an order enjoining the violation of the stop construction order. This remedy is in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other remedy provided by law or ordinance, and does not prevent criminal prosecution for failure to obey the order.(4)Without limitation on other available remedies, an interested person may apply for an order, enjoining the continuation of construction undertaken in violation of a building permit, this act, the code or other applicable laws or ordinances, to the circuit court for the county in which the premises are located.