CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1459a: 

125.1459a Sec. 59a.The owner of supportive housing property shall file with the local assessing officer a notification of that status, which shall be in an affidavit form as provided by the authority. The completed affidavit form first shall be submitted to the authority before November 1 of the year preceding the tax year in which the exemption is to begin for certification by the authority that the project is supportive housing property. The owner then shall file the certified notification of the exemption with the local assessing officer before December 1 of the year preceding the tax year in which the exemption is to begin. The authority shall not accept any affidavits filed with it for certification on or after November 1 of any year. The authority shall certify property as supportive housing property on a first-come, first-served basis. The authority shall not certify more than 250 individual living units in each year, and not more than 62 units certified as supportive housing property for a year can be in a single county. If by November 1 of any year the total number of living units that the authority has certified for that year is fewer than 250 living units, the authority may, subject to the annual state-wide limit of 250 living units, certify additional living units in any county that had previously reached the 62-unit limit. This certification shall be on a first-come, first-served basis, based on affidavits filed with the authority before November 1 of that year, but after the county involved reached the 62-unit limit. If not all of the affidavits can be certified without reaching the 250-unit limit, and the date and time of the filing of those affidavits does not establish which were filed earliest, the authority shall select and certify affidavits within that group randomly, keeping a balance of certified units among counties that have more than 62 certified units. 125.1461.D10 Chapter