CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4405: 

125.4405 Sec. 405.(1) The authority shall be under the supervision and control of a board of 7 members appointed by the chief executive officer of the city, village, or urban township creating the authority subject to the approval of the governing body creating the authority. The board shall include 1 member appointed by the county board of commissioners of the county in which the authority is located. The board shall include 1 member representing a community or junior college in whose district the authority is located appointed by the chief executive officer of that community or junior college. The board shall also include 2 members appointed by the chief executive officer of each local governmental unit, other than the city, village, or urban township creating the authority, which levied 20% or more of the ad valorem property taxes levied against all property located in an authority district in the year before the year in which the authority district is established. However, those additional members shall only vote on matters relating to authority districts located within their respective local unit of government. Of the members first appointed, an equal number, as near as possible, shall have terms designated by the governing body creating the authority of 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, and 4 years. However, a member shall hold office until the member's successor is appointed. After the first appointment, each member shall serve for a term of 4 years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made in the same manner as the original appointment. An appointment to fill an unexpired term shall be for the unexpired portion of the term only. Members of the board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses.(2) The chairperson of the board shall be elected by the board.(3) Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.(4) The board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the holding of regular meetings, subject to the approval of the governing body. Special meetings may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of the board. Meetings of the board shall be open to the public, in accordance with the open meetings act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.261 to 15.275.(5) Subject to notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of the board may be removed before the expiration of his or her term for cause by the governing body. Removal of a member is subject to review by the circuit court.(6) All expense items of the authority shall be publicized annually and the financial records shall be open to the public pursuant to the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246.(7) The provisions of subsections (1) and (5) of this section shall not apply to an authority exercising its powers under section 403(3).