CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1448i: 

125.1448i Sec. 48i.(1) The mortgagor, the mortgagor's heirs, executors, administrators, or any person lawfully claiming under the mortgagor or the mortgagor's heirs, executors, or administrators may redeem the entire premises sold by paying, within 6 months from the date of the sale, to the purchaser or the purchaser's executors, administrators, or assigns, or to the register of deeds in whose office the deed of sale is deposited as provided in the court rules, for the benefit of the purchaser, the sum which was bid with interest from the date of the sale at the interest rate provided for by the mortgage.(2) The vendee of a land contract, the vendee's heirs, executors, administrators, or any person lawfully claiming under the vendee of a land contract or the vendee's heirs, executors, or administrators of a land contract may redeem the entire premises sold within 6 months from the date of the sale by paying to the purchaser or the purchaser's executors, administrators, or assigns, or to the register of deeds in whose office the deed of sale is deposited as provided in the court rules, for the benefit of the purchaser, the sum which was bid with interest from the date of the sale at the interest rate provided for by the land contract. In case the sum is paid to the register of deeds, the sum of $5.00 shall be paid to the register of deeds as a fee for the care and custody of the redemption money. (3) Upon the payment of sums required under this section, the deed of sale is void. If a distinct lot or parcel separately sold is redeemed, leaving a portion of the premises unredeemed, then the deed of sale is void only as to the portion or portions of the premises which are redeemed. The register of deeds shall not determine the amount necessary for redemption. The purchaser shall attach an affidavit with the deed to be recorded that states the exact amount required to redeem the property, including any daily per diem amounts, and the date by which the property must be redeemed shall be stated in the certificate of sale. The purchaser may include in the affidavit the name of a designee responsible on behalf of the purchaser to assist the person redeeming the property in computing the exact amount required to redeem the property. The designee may charge a fee as stated in the affidavit and may be authorized by the purchaser to receive redemption funds. The purchaser shall accept the amount computed by the designee. (4) The amount stated in any affidavits recorded under this section shall be the amount necessary to satisfy the requirements for redemption under this section.