CHAPTER 559: CONDOMINIUMS (Condominiums)
MCL 559.166: 

559.166 Sec. 66.(1) Subject to subsection (2)(b), the condominium subdivision plan for each condominium project shall be prepared by a licensed architect, licensed professional surveyor, or licensed professional engineer and shall bear the signature and seal of the licensed architect, licensed professional surveyor, or licensed professional engineer. The condominium subdivision plan shall be reproductions of original drawings.(2) A complete condominium subdivision plan shall include all of the following:(a) A cover sheet. The cover sheet shall list all documents included in the condominium subdivision plan and contain a notice that reads substantially as follows:This condominium subdivision plan is not required to contain detailed project design plans prepared by the appropriate licensed design professional. Such project design plans are filed, as part of the construction permit application, with the enforcing agency for the state construction code in the relevant governmental subdivision. The enforcing agency may be a local building department or the state department of licensing and regulatory affairs.(b) A survey plan. The survey plan shall be signed and sealed by the licensed professional surveyor preparing the boundary survey for the condominium project.(c) A floodplain plan, if the condominium lies within or abuts a floodplain area.(d) A site plan. (e) A utility plan.(f) Floor plans. (g) The size, location, area, and horizontal boundaries of each condominium unit.(h) A number assigned to each condominium unit.(i) The vertical boundaries for each unit comprised of enclosed air space.(j) Building sections showing the existing and proposed structures and improvements including their location on the land. Any proposed structure and improvement shown shall be labeled either "must be built" or "need not be built". To the extent that a developer is contractually obligated to deliver utility conduits, buildings, sidewalks, driveways, landscaping, or an access road, these items shall be shown and designated as "must be built", but the obligation to deliver these items exists whether or not they are so shown and designated.(k) The nature, location, and approximate size of the common elements.(l) Other items the administrator requires by rule.(3) Condominium subdivision plans shall be numbered consecutively when recorded by the register of deeds and shall be designated "__________ county condominium subdivision plan number __________".(4) The developer shall complete all structures and improvements designated pursuant to subsection (2)(j) "must be built".