CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.1521: 

125.1521 Sec. 21.A person may petition the commission to approve the use of a particular material, product, method of manufacture or method or manner of construction or installation. The petition shall be in writing on a form to be prescribed by the commission accompanied by such information and material as the commission may by rule require and by an initial fee. On receipt of the petition, the commission shall cause to be conducted testing and evaluation it deems desirable for the particular material, product, method of manufacture or method or manner of construction or installation. After the testing and evaluation, and after a hearing open to the public in which the results of the testing and evaluation are made part of the record, and the petitioner or any other interested party is allowed to present evidence in support of or against the petition, the commission may reject the petition in whole or in part, may in accordance with procedures established in this act amend the code in such manner as the commission deems appropriate, or may grant a certificate of acceptability for the particular material, product, method of manufacture, or method or manner of construction or installation. A petition shall not be rejected if the application is in proper form and the fees are paid, and if performance of the particular material, product, method of manufacture, or method or manner of construction or installation is adequate for its intended use and consistent with reasonable requirements for the health, safety and welfare of the people of this state. The commission may attach any condition it deems appropriate to a certificate of acceptability. A material, product, method of manufacture, or method or manner of construction or installation shall be acceptable for use throughout this state in accordance with the terms of a certificate of acceptability issued with respect to it. A copy of each certificate of acceptability shall be sent or delivered by the commission to each governmental subdivision, however, failure of the commission to comply with this requirement does not prevent or delay effectiveness of a certificate of acceptability. A certificate of acceptability issued by the commission pursuant to this section shall not be used for advertising purposes.