CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.4805: 

125.4805 Sec. 805.(1) If the governing body of a municipality determines that it is necessary for the best interests of the public to promote residential growth in a residential district and to promote economic growth, the governing body may, by resolution, declare its intention to create and provide for the operation of an authority.(2) In the resolution of intent, the governing body shall set a date for a public hearing on the adoption of a proposed ordinance creating the authority and designating the boundaries of the development area. Notice of the public hearing shall be published twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, not less than 20 or more than 40 days before the date of the hearing. Not less than 20 days before the hearing, the governing body proposing to create the authority shall also mail notice of the hearing to the property taxpayers of record in the proposed development area and to the governing body of each taxing jurisdiction levying taxes that would be subject to capture if the authority is established and a tax increment financing plan is approved. Failure of a property taxpayer to receive the notice does not invalidate these proceedings. Notice of the hearing shall be posted in at least 20 conspicuous and public places in the proposed development area not less than 20 days before the hearing. The notice shall state the date, time, and place of the hearing and shall describe the boundaries of the proposed development area. A citizen, taxpayer, or property owner of the municipality or an official from a taxing jurisdiction with millage that would be subject to capture has the right to be heard in regard to the establishment of the authority and the boundaries of the proposed development area. The governing body of the municipality shall not incorporate land into the development area not included in the description contained in the notice of public hearing, but it may eliminate described lands from the development area in the final determination of the boundaries.(3) Not less than 60 days after the public hearing, if the governing body of the municipality intends to proceed with the establishment of the authority, it shall adopt, by majority vote of its members, an ordinance establishing the authority and designating the boundaries of the development area within which the authority shall exercise its powers. The adoption of the ordinance is subject to any applicable statutory or charter provisions in respect to the approval or disapproval by the chief executive or other officer of the municipality and the adoption of an ordinance over his or her veto. This ordinance shall be filed with the secretary of state promptly after its adoption and shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.(4) The governing body of the municipality may alter or amend the boundaries of the development area to include or exclude lands from the development area in the same manner as adopting the ordinance creating the authority.(5) A residential district or development area under this part shall not include an area of a municipality that is part of a residential district or a development area under the historical neighborhood tax increment finance authority act, 2004 PA 530, MCL 125.2841 to 125.2866.(6) An authority created under this part shall have a duration of not more than 30 years from the date of the resolution creating the authority. The governing body of a municipality may extend the duration of the authority by resolution if the purposes for which the authority was created still exist.