CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2309: 

125.2309 Sec. 9.(1) After consultation with and considering comments from representatives of the manufactured housing industry and other interested parties, the department shall promulgate rules to establish fees and charges for the issuance of licenses or permits under section 5.(2) The fees and charges under this act shall be applied solely to the implementation of the act and shall constitute the total funding for the commission except as provided in 1959 PA 243, MCL 125.1035 to 125.1043.(3) A fee shall not be charged for an investigation conducted pursuant to section 36.(4) A fee shall not be charged or collected by the commission in excess of that necessary to administer and enforce this act.(5) The department may promulgate rules to adjust the fees established in subsection (1) and in sections 16, 21, 30a, and 30c such that revenues obtained under this act equal appropriations by the legislature for the purpose of administering this act. However, the adjusted fees shall not exceed the fees stated in sections 16, 21, 30a, and 30c.(6) To accomplish the objectives of this act, a mobile home code fund is created. Fees established by the act for the issuance of licenses, plans approval, permits, certificates of title, and affidavits of affixture are intended to bear a reasonable relation to the cost, including overhead, of the service. The state treasurer is the custodian of the fund and may invest the surplus of the fund in investments that in the state treasurer's judgment are in the best interest of the fund. Earnings from those investments shall be credited to the fund. The state treasurer shall report to the director and the legislature the amount of interest credited and the balance of the fund as of September 30 of each year. The director shall supervise and administer the fund. Fees received by the department and money collected under the act shall be deposited in the fund and shall be appropriated by the legislature for the operation of the bureau of construction codes and fire safety and indirect overhead expenses in the department. Funds that are unexpended at the end of each fiscal year shall be returned to the mobile home code fund.