CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.2109: 

125.2109 Sec. 9.(1)If a local governmental unit qualifies under the criteria of section 8 and wishes to apply for approval of an enterprise zone within its boundaries, the local governmental unit shall establish a citizens' council for the potential enterprise zone. A local governmental unit shall have only 1 citizens' council regardless of the number of enterprise zones within its boundaries. The citizens' council shall consist of 11 individuals nominated by the chief elected official of the local governmental unit and approved by the governing body of the local governmental unit. In the selection of the citizens' council members, preference shall be given to persons who reside, are located, or are doing business in that local governmental unit. (2)A member shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that of the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for 1 year, 4 for 2 years, and 4 for 3 years. A vacancy on the citizens' council shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. For a local governmental unit establishing an enterprise zone after 1993, the citizens' council shall consist of persons who live, work, own property, or own a business that owns property in the local governmental unit. For a local governmental unit that established an enterprise zone before 1994, the citizens' council shall consist of all of the following:(a)A representative of financial institutions.(b)A representative of business.(c)A person with expertise in land use.(d)A person with expertise in economic development.(e)An educator. (f)A representative of labor organizations.(g)A representative of neighborhood associations.(h)An attorney. (i)A homeowner. (j)Two elected officials representing the residents of the enterprise zone.(3)The governing body of the local governmental unit shall provide staff for the citizens' council and shall carry out the administrative duties and functions as directed by that governing body.