CHAPTER 125: PLANNING, HOUSING, AND ZONING (Planning Housing and Zoning)
MCL 125.3103: 

125.3103 Sec. 103.(1) Except as otherwise provided under this act, if a local unit of government conducts a public hearing required under this act, the local unit of government shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the local unit of government not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing. (2) Notice required under this act shall be given as provided under subsection (3) to the owners of property that is the subject of the request. Notice shall also be given as provided under subsection (3) to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the property that is the subject of the request and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the subject property regardless of whether the property or structure is located in the zoning jurisdiction. Notification need not be given to more than 1 occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than 1 dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different persons, 1 occupant of each unit or spatial area shall be given notice. If a single structure contains more than 4 dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different persons, notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure, who shall be requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.(3) The notice under subsection (2) is considered to be given when personally delivered or when deposited during normal business hours for delivery with the United States postal service or other public or private delivery service. The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the request will be considered. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may be used for the intended recipient of the notice. (4) A notice under this section shall do all of the following:(a) Describe the nature of the request.(b) Indicate the property that is the subject of the request. The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the property. Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no street addresses, other means of identification may be used.(c) State when and where the request will be considered.(d) Indicate when and where written comments will be received concerning the request. 125.3201.D10 ZONING AUTHORIZATION AND INITIATION ARTICLE