ARTICLE 19 PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SECTION 19.1 PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this Article to specify the procedure and requirements for the review of special land uses,
as specified in this Ordinance. Uses classified as special land uses are recognized as possessing unique
characteristics (relative to location, design, size, public infrastructure needs, and other similar characteristics)
which require individual review and approval standards in order to safeguard the general health, safety, and
welfare of the County.
SECTION 19.2 APPLICATION AND FEES
An application for a special use permit shall be made by filing with the zoning administrator one (1) paper
copy and one (1) PDF electronic copy (or similar file format) of a completed application form, including all
required information and the fees established by the County Board of Commissioners to cover the costs of
processing the application. No part of any fee shall be refundable.
SECTION 19.3 DATA REQUIRED
This application for a special land-use permit shall include all the following information:
19.3.1 The Applicant’s name, address, and telephone number.
19.3.2 The legal description, addresses, and taxes identification number of the proposed site.
19.3.3 A signed statement that the Applicant is the owner of the proposed site, or is acting as the owner’s
representative.
19.3.4 A site plan meeting all of the requirements of Section 23.2 of this Ordinance.
19.3.5 A detailed written description of the proposed special land use.
19.3.6 A detailed written statement, with supporting evidence, demonstrating how the proposed special land
use will comply with the standards for special land use approval specified in Section 19.8 of this
Ordinance.
19.3.7 Any additional information reasonably deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to determine
compliance with the standards for special land use approval specified in Section 19.8 of this Ordinance
and the impact of the proposed special land use on adjacent properties, public infrastructure, and the
County as a whole. This information may take the form of, but is not limited to, traffic impact analysis,
environmental impact assessments, market studies (to determine demand and/or use saturation), fiscal
impact analysis or reports and/or information from officials representing state, county, or local police,
fire, or health departments, the county road commission or Michigan Department of Transportation and/or
state, county, or local environmental regulatory agencies.
SECTION 19.4 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’S REVIEW
19.4.1 The zoning administrators shall review the application and information submitted under Section 19.3
of this Ordinance to determine if all required information was supplied. If the zoning administrator
determines that all required information was not supplied, he/she shall send written notification to the
Applicant of the deficiencies. The application for the special use permit cannot proceed until all required
information has been supplied.
19.4.2 Once all required information is submitted, the zoning administrator shall forward the application to
the Planning Commission for its review under the procedures of this Article, and will notify the township
in which the property is located of the application.
SECTION 19.5 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS
Following receipt of a complete special use permit application, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing. The notices for all public hearings before the planning commission concerning requests for special
use permits and planned unit developments shall comply with all of the following:
A. The content of the notice shall include all of the following information:
XIX-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance