PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The entire easement width or ownership interest of any publicly dedicated
street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley or similar place.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A firm or corporation, municipal department, board or commission duly authorized to
furnish and furnishing under Federal, State, or municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity,
sewage disposal, communication, telegraph, transportation, or water.
RACE TRACK: A way improved, designed, constructed, excavated or ordinarily used for traffic in racing,
or training or testing for racing. It includes all racing by motorized vehicles and all racing activities
accompanied by spectators but does not include walking or hiking trails used exclusively by humans. Racing
means a competitive event in which time is a determining factor.
RATED NAMEPLATE CAPACITY: The maximum rated output of electric power production of the
photovoltaic system in watts of Direct Current (DC).
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Property used for temporary or permanent dwelling purposes.
RESORT: A recreational camp or facility operated for gain, and which provides overnight lodging and one
or more of the following activities: golf, skiing, dude ranching, recreational farming, snowmobiling, pack
trains, non-motorized bicycle trails, boating, swimming and related or similar uses normally associated with
recreational resorts.
ROAD, PRIVATE: A road or thoroughfare not owned or maintained by Otsego County or the Michigan
Department of Transportation that provides the principal means of access for vehicular traffic to more than
three lots, parcels, or site condominiums.
ROAD, PUBLIC: A road owned and maintained by Otsego County or the Michigan Department of
Transportation.
ROADSIDE STAND: An accessory and temporary farm structure operated for the purpose of selling local
agricultural products.
SERVICE ROADS: Local roads that parallel an expressway or through street and that provide access to
property near the expressway or through street.
SETBACK: The distance required to meet the front, side and rear yard open space requirements of this
ordinance as measured from the lot lines or Road Right of Way to the fascia of the roof overhang or to the
closest point of a deck or porch, not including steps, whichever is less.
SHOOTING RANGE: An area designed and operated for the use of rifles, shotguns, pistols, silhouettes,
skeet, trap, black powder, or any other similar sport shooting at targets.
SHORELAND: Land paralleling the lake shoreline, fifty feet (50’) wide as measured from the ordinary
high-water level. And the land paralleling the banks of all rivers, streams and flowages of water in the
County that appear on the most recent U.S. Geological Survey Quadrangle maps, one hundred fifty feet
(150’) wide, measured from the ordinary high-water level, landward, at right angles or radial to the shoreline
or bank, on a horizontal plane.
SIGN: The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs or trademarks by which anything is made
known such as are used to show an individual, firm, profession or business, and are visible to the generalpublic. Accessory signs pertain to uses, activities or services conducted on the premises where located.
SIGN FACE: The part of a sign structure which is used to graphically communicate a message or
announcement including a border space of not less than three inches (3”) outside of any lettering or other
graphic symbols or depictions.
SOLAR ACCESS: The access of a solar energy system to direct sunlight.
SOLAR COLLECTOR: A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for which the primary
purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in the form of heat or light
by a solar collector.
II-11
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance