15.1.5 Professional offices: Office for medical, dental, legal, engineering, architectural, accounting services,
brokerage houses, insurance, real estate or travel agencies with a footprint of up 7,000 sq. ft.
15.1.6 Mixed-use buildings with business, commercial or service uses on the ground floor and residential or
office uses on upper floors - Where there is mixed business/office and residential use in a building, there
shall be provided a separate, private pedestrian entranceway for the residential uses.
15.1.7 Newspaper offices and publishers and commercial printers with a footprint of up to 7,000 sq. ft.
15.1.8 Restaurants, including those with outdoor eating areas, carry-out and open front restaurants, subject
to the following site design standards:
15.1.8.1 Outdoor eating areas may be on a public right-of-way, on a building roof top, as part of a patio
or deck or within the boundaries of a parcel or lot.
15.1.8.2 A minimum of four feet (4’) of public sidewalk along the entire eating area and leading to the
entrance of the establishment shall be maintained free of tables and other encumbrances. The
pedestrian area shall also be free from benches, waste receptacles, fire hydrants and similar structures.
If the sidewalk is not wide enough to allow for a four foot (4’) wide clearance for circulation, the
outdoor eating area shall not be permitted on a public sidewalk.
15.1.8.3 The outdoor eating area shall be kept clean, litter-free within and immediately adjacent to the
area of the tables and chairs. Additionally, all waste generated on site shall be contained by the
owner, which may require outdoor waste receptacles. Owners are responsible for all wastes so
generated. Written procedures for cleaning and waste containment and removal responsibilities must
be included with all applications.
15.1.8.4 Tables, chairs, planters, waste receptacles and other elements of street furniture shall be
compatible with the architectural character of the adjacent buildings. If table umbrellas will be used,
they shall complement building colors. All tables, chairs, umbrellas and other furniture and fixtures
must be stored inside the building or in an alternate location other than a public sidewalk, except
thirty (30) minutes prior to opening until sixty (60) minutes after closing.
15.1.8.5 Such areas are permitted seasonally between April 1st and October 31st; the hours of operation
for the outdoor eating area shall be established and noted with the application.
15.1.8.6 The owner of an outdoor eating area may apply for two (2) event permits outside of the normal
season of not more than ten (10) days combined; all other outdoor eating area requirements apply.
15.1.8.7 The issuance of a permit for an outdoor eating area does not constitute a separate business
15.1.9 Personal service establishments within a completely enclosed building, provided each occupies a
total usable floor area of not more than 7,000 sq. ft., including but not limited to such uses as: repair
shops (watches, radio, television, shoes, etc.), tailor and dressmaking shops, beauty parlors and styling
salons, barber shops, photographic studios, film processing outlets, copy centers, interior decorators,
postal centers and computer services
15.1.10 Public, quasi-public and institutional uses such as, but not limited to, municipal buildings and
offices, court houses, public off-street parking facilities, libraries, museums, public safety facilities,
parks and playgrounds, post offices and civic centers and schools but excluding storage yards
15.1.11 Retail businesses which supply commodities on the premise with a footprint of up to 7,000 sq. ft.,
such as but not limited to: groceries, meats, fruits and produce, dairy products, baked goods, candies,
wine (specialty wine shops only) and other specialty food products (such products can be produced on
the premises as an accessory use provided they are sold on the site at retail prices); and stores selling
drugs, dry goods, flowers, clothing, notions, books and magazines, toys, sporting goods, shoes, tobacco
products, musical instruments, recorded music, video rentals and sales, gifts and souvenirs, antiques,
furniture and hardware
15.1.12 Retail sales with a footprint of up to 7,000 sq. ft. in which both a workshop and retail outlet or
showroom are required, such as plumbing, electrical, interior decorating, upholstering, printing,
XV-2
Table of Contents
Otsego County Zoning Ordinance