stabilization shall be required. The maximum allowable total area of all walks and stairs within the
shoreland shall not exceed 450 sq. ft. on lakes and 1,050 sq. ft. on rivers and streams.
No part of any improvement in the shoreland shall extend more than eighteen inches (18”) above any part of
the surrounding terrain, except hand rails as required by the Building Department and water pump enclosures
which may be a maximum of thirty inches (30”) tall and forty-eight inches (48”) wide. Boardwalks, decks,
and pathways through regulated wetlands will require a permit from the DNR.
SECTION 18.5 TREE CUTTING WITHIN THE SHORELANDS BY PERMIT
In order to protect the natural character, environment and ecology of the waters of Otsego County, the
shorelands shall be maintained in a natural condition. Vegetation shall be retained and tree cutting shall only
be permitted following site plan approval by the Zoning Administrator as noted in Section 18.8.
Clear cutting of trees shall not create a clear-cut swathe wider than thirty percent (30%) of the lot width, and
in no case shall clear cutting exceed a total width of thirty feet (30’) for each one hundred feet (100’) of
shoreline. Provided further, that the stumps may be cut flush with the ground but the roots shall not be
removed. Any soil disturbance associated with the clearing of vegetation must be adequately protected from
erosion and sedimentation in accordance with the standards of the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Act.
SECTION 18.6 EXCAVATING, FILLING OR GRADING OF SHORELANDS
Excavation, filling or grading of shorelands shall only be permitted following site plan approval by the
Zoning Administrator as noted in Section 18.8 and as guided by regulations set forth in Section 18.4.
The purpose of the Shoreland area is to prevent and control water pollution, preserve shoreland cover,
natural beauty and to further the maintenance of safe and healthy bodies of water within Otsego County
therefore, Excavation must be the minimum required for use of the shoreland. Landscaping and Lawns are
not considered natural vegetation and shall not be permitted within fifty feet (50’) of a Lake or one hundred
fifty feet (150’) of a lake or stream.
Unless due to steep slopes which make use of the Shoreland impossible, retaining walls shall not be
permitted within the Shoreland. In the event of steep slopes, a retaining wall shall not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the lot width and shall be the minimum height possible to permit use of the Shoreland.
In addition to County Zoning Administrator approval, appropriate permits from the County Soil
Conservation Office and from the Department of Natural Resources shall be obtained.
SECTION 18.7 BEACH IMPROVEMENTS
Improvements and/or maintenance of existing beaches that do not require any excavation or removal of soil
is permitted.
Any improvements and/or maintenance of existing beaches involving excavation or removal of soil shall be
permitted only following site plan approval by the Zoning Administrator as noted in Section 18.8 and as
regulated by Sections 18.4, 18.5 and 18.6.
The depth of the beach area shall not exceed fifteen feet (15’) from the normal high-water level inland and
the beach area shall not exceed six percent (6%) slope. In developing a new beach area, the procedures in
this section and Section 18.5 shall be followed.
SECTION 18.8 SHORELAND SITE PLAN APPLICATION PROCEDURES
A Site Plan Review application must be completed and a site plan meeting all of the provisions of Article 23
and this Section shall be provided.
In addition to a Site Plan that complies with Article 23, Shoreland site plans shall show the following
additional information:
18.8.1 Property lines at the waterline back to a depth of at least sixty feet (60’) for lakes and one hundred
sixty feet (160’) for rivers.
18.8.2 Existing vegetation and trees within the shoreline area.
XVIII-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance