21.23.3 Manufactured housing sites shall contain a minimum area of at least 5,000 sq. ft., computed exclusive of
service drives, or other park facilities. No manufactured home shall be sited nearer than ten feet (10’) to the
boundary line of any individual site or lot. The minimum lot width shall be fifty feet (50’).
21.23.4 A wall, or greenbelt of dense natural evergreen plantings (minimum twelve feet (12’) wide), or
obscuring fence four feet and six inches (4'6") in height shall be provided on all sides of the manufactured
housing park, with the exception of that portion providing ingress and egress to the site which must be
landscaped and kept in a neat and presentable condition at all times. Landscaping details shall be indicated on
the site plan.
21.23.5 For each manufactured housing space in the manufactured housing park, there shall be provided an area
of not less than 200 sq. ft. per manufactured home site for outdoor recreation, with a minimum area of not less
than 5,000 sq. ft., which shall be no longer than two (2) times its width. Such area shall be developed and
maintained by the management so as to provide recreation for the children housed in the manufactured
housing park.
21.23.6 The front yard and side yard adjacent to a boundary street shall be landscaped with natural plant
materials and/or lawns, and the entire manufactured housing park shall be maintained in a clean, presentable
condition at all times.
SECTION 21.24 [RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE]
SECTION 21.25 MINING, GRAVEL, SAND, CLAY, TOP SOIL, and MARL
Amended 4.9.2013

Allowed as a use Subject to Special Conditions in the AR, FR and I zoning districts:
The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act 110 of 2006, may allow this Use in other Zoning Districts:
21.25.1 Site Development Requirements/Restrictions:
The following Site Development Requirements shall be followed:
21.25.1.1 The site size shall be a minimum of ten (10) acres.
Setback Area: Setbacks in which no part of the mining operation may take place excepting ingress and
egress shall be as follows:
Excavation below the existing grade of adjacent roads or property lines shall not take place within fifty feet
(50’) from any adjacent property line or road right-of-way line. This shall include any sloping during the
reclamation of the site.
No machinery shall be erected or maintained within one hundred feet (100’) of any property or road right-ofway line.
On any site that is adjacent to lakes, rivers, streams or flowages of water that appear on most Geological
Survey Quadrangle maps, the Otsego County Planning Commission reserves the right to increase the
minimum set-back from the ordinary high-water mark, to a distance greater than fifty feet (50’) to ensure the
maintenance of safe healthy conditions on the shorelands within Otsego County.
21.25.1.2 The area permitted for mining shall be marked with stakes or other markers as approved by the
zoning administrator at all corners before the operation commences, and shall be maintained until the
reclamation is approved in writing by the zoning administrator.
21.25.1.3 Sufficient native topsoil shall be left on the site as a ready resource to be used in reclamation work
following excavation/extraction activity, unless an alternative or replacement plan is approved by the
Planning Commission.
21.25.1.4 Physical isolation from residential properties shall be considered in locating development facilities.
Topography, vegetation, screening devices and earth stockpiles may be used to accomplish this.

XXI-20
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance