21.18.2.4 Berms constructed pursuant to Section 21.18.3 shall be constructed with slopes not to exceed
one to three (1:3) gradients with side slopes designed and planted to prevent erosion, and with a
rounded surface a minimum of two feet (2’) in width at the highest point of the berm, extending the
length of the berm. Berm slopes shall be protected with sod, seed, shrubs or other form of natural
ground cover.
21.18.3 Buffer Yards:
Buffer yards shall be constructed to mitigate problems associated with traffic, noise, vibration, odor, glare,
dust, smoke, pollution, water vapor, conflicting land uses and density, height, mass, layout of adjacent uses,
loss of privacy, unsightly views and other potentially negative effects of development. Buffering may be
achieved using landscape, building fences and berm or a combination of the above techniques.
Buffer yards shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel, extending to the lot or parcel boundary
line. Buffer yards shall not be located on any portion of an existing or dedicated public or Private Street or
right-of-way.
Tables I and II shall be used to determine buffer yard dimensions and plant materials specifications. Table I is
used to determine the type of Buffer yard (A, B, C, D, E, EX, or NA) which will be required between districts
or users. Once the type of Buffer yard is obtained, Table II outlines the plant material specifications for
alternative widths and specifications and treatments (walls, berms, etc.) of buffer yard. Each property line
should be analyzed independently to determine the appropriate buffer yard required.
The buffer yard tables are to be considered minimum standards. Increased landscaping requirements may be
imposed by the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission if it is determined any of the following
conditions exist:
The type of required buffer yard will not sufficiently mitigate noise, glare, fumes, smoke, dust or unsightly
views within the site.
The scale of the project in regard to mass and height indicates the need for a buffer yard developed specifically
for the project.
The proposed use is next to an existing sensitive use such as a school, church or residential area.
21.18.4 Roadside Greenbelt Buffers:
Unless as otherwise required by Section 21.18.3, required front yards shall be landscaped with a minimum of
one (1) tree, not less than one and one-half inches (1½”) in diameter for single family residential uses and two
and one half (2½) inches in diameter of other use, for each 1000 sq. ft., or major portion thereof, of front yard
abutting a road right-of-way. The remainder of the greenbelt shall be landscaped provided however, rock or
other inorganic ground cover shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the yard area.
Access ways from public rights-of-way through required landscaped strips shall be permitted, but such access
ways shall not be subtracted from the square foot dimension used to determine the minimum number of trees
required.
21.18.5 Screening of Unsightly Areas:
Unsightly areas, including but not limited to outside storage areas, utility boxes and open areas where
machinery or vehicles are stored or repaired, shall be screened from public sidewalks, streets and other areas
from which the property is visible. Such screening shall not be located as to interfere with required
maintenance activities of utility boxes.
Whenever plants are used as a screen, they should provide an effective opaque screen within three (3) years of
the time they are planted.
The materials and colors of the screen should blend with the site and the surroundings.

XXI-14
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance