A Zoning Lot may or may not coincide with a lot of record as filed with the County Register of Deeds, and
may include one (1) or more lots of record.
MAIN BUILDING: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot upon which it is situated.
MAIN USE: The principal use to which the premises are devoted and the principal purpose for which the
premises exist.
MANUFACTURED HOME: [See MOBILE HOME]
MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK: A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person upon
which three (3) or more mobile homes are located on a continual, non-recreational basis and which is
offered to the public for that purpose regardless of whether a charge is made therefore, together with any
building, structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use incidental to the
occupancy of a mobile home.
MARINA: A facility which is owned or operated by a person, extends into or over an inland lake or stream
and offers service to the public or members of the marina for docking, loading or other servicing of
recreational watercraft.
MASTER PLAN: The County Comprehensive Plan as may be amended or updated, including graphic and
written proposals indicating general locations for roads, streets, parking, schools, public buildings, and other
physical development features, including resource conservation objectives.
MOBILE HOME: Means a structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which is built on a chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation, when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained in the structure.
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION: The words “municipal civil infraction” means an act or omission that
is prohibited by the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance or the Otsego County Municipal Civil Infractions
Ordinance, and for which civil sanctions, including fines, damages, expenses and costs, may be ordered. A
municipal civil infraction is not a lesser included offense of a violation of the Otsego County Zoning
Ordinance that is a criminal offense.
NEO-TRADITIONAL: Reviving traditional methods; combining tradition with newer elements.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at the effective date of
this Ordinance, or amendments thereto, that does not conform to the provisions of the Ordinance in the district
in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which has lawfully occupied a building or land at the time this Ordinance,
or amendments thereto, became effective, that does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which it
is located. (Commonly referred to as “grandfathered”)
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: A space, building or structure, or combination thereof, for the storage
of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered for retail sale on the premises, including products used for gardening or
landscaping. The definition of nursery does not include space used for the sale of fruits or vegetables.
NUISANCE FACTORS: An offensive, annoying, unpleasant, or obnoxious thing or practice, a cause or
source of annoyance, especially a continuing or repeating invasion of any physical characteristics of activity or
use across a property line which can be perceived by or affects a human being, or the generation of an
excessive or concentrated movement of people or things, such as: noise, dust, heat, electronic or atomic
radiation, objectionable effluent, noise of congregation of people, particularly at night, and passenger traffic.
OFF-STREET PARKING LOT: A parking area off the street, which may require drives and aisles for
maneuvering, for the parking of four (4) or more vehicles.
ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LINE: On an inland lake which has a level established by law, it means the
high established level. Otsego Lake has a High-Water Line established by law which is a 1273.5 elevation.
The elevation is maintained by the County Road Commission. For other lakes in the County it means the line
between upland and bottom land which persists through successive changes in water levels, below which the
II-9
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance