21.46.2.11 Professional sealed documents are required for all Wireless Communications Towers [Section
23.2.2]
21.46.2.12 Soil samples and water flow analysis will not be required for projects involving less than 20 sq.
ft. of soil disruption.
21.46.3 Wireless Telecommunication Antenna Towers OVER One Hundred Seventy-Nine Feet (179’)
and Related Facilities:
Construction of Wireless Communications Towers over one hundred seventy-nine feet (179’) and Equipment
Shelter Buildings are a Permitted Use Subject to Special Conditions under Article 19. Requirements include
all those in Section 21.46.2, plus the following:
21.46.3.1 In order to maximize the efficiency of the provision of telecommunication services, while also
minimizing the impact of such facilities on Otsego County, location, co-location, or the provision of
more than one (1) antenna on a single tower may be allowed by the Zoning Administrator and/or
required by the Planning Commission.
21.46.3.1.1 As an alternative to the provisions of 21.46.3.1.2 below, location or co-location on existing
towers or structures shall be approved as a Principal Use Permitted by the Zoning Administrator
under applicable provisions, including 21.46.2.7.1. An accessory equipment shelter building shall
meet all normal requirements of accessory buildings.
If not locating or co-locating on existing towers or structures, the applicant shall be required to provide
information regarding the feasibility of location or co-location as part of the Special Land Use
application.
Factors to be considered in determining feasibility or co-sharing include available space on existing
structures, towers, the tower owner's ability to lease space, the tower's structural capacity, radio
frequency interference, geographic service area requirements, mechanical or electrical incompatibilities,
the comparative costs of co-location and new construction, and any FCC limitations on tower sharing.
21.46.3.1.2 The applicant shall be required to send a certified mail announcement to all other tower
owners in the area, stating their sighting needs and/or sharing capabilities in an effort to encourage
tower sharing. The applicant shall not be denied space on a tower unless mechanical, structural, or
regulatory factors prevent sharing.
21.46.3.1.3 Further the applicant may be required to provide a letter of intent to lease excess space on a
facility and commit to: Responding to any requests for information from another potential shared use
applicant. Negotiating in good faith and allow for leased shared use if an applicant demonstrates that
it is technically practicable; and making no more than a reasonable charge for a share use lease.
21.46.3.2 Tower heights shall be no more than required according to engineering requirements for a specific
site or the technical capabilities of the antennas being mounted. The applicant shall provide funds to the
county determined by the Planning Commission to be sufficient to acquire an independent technical and
engineering evaluation of the need for any tower in excess of one hundred seventy-nine feet (179’).
Where the independent evaluation shows that service can be provided by a one hundred seventy-nine
foot (179’) or lower tower no tower in excess of one hundred seventy-nine feet (179’) shall be allowed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant a variance from this requirement.
21.46.4 Removal of Wireless Communication Towers:
21.46.4.1 A condition of every approval of a wireless communication tower shall be adequate provision for
removal of all or part of the facility by users and owners when the tower has not been used for a period of
twelve (12) months. For purposes of this section, the removal of antennas or other equipment from the
facility, or the cessation of operations shall be considered as the beginning of a period of non-use.
21.46.4.2 At such time that removal is required, the property owner or persons who had used the facility
shall immediately apply or secure the application that require demolition or removal and immediately
XXI-46
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance