Zoning District
R1, R2, R3, RR, B1
FR, AR
B2, B3, HX
I

Day dB(A)
40
40
50
60

Night dB(A)
35
35
45
50

For the purposes of this article, “Day” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 AM and 7:00 PM and
“Night” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM. Sound pressure levels may be
exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or windstorms.
g. Code Requirements: Shall meet all applicable state and local construction and electrical codes, and
other permits required by law. Wiring for WTG-Small shall be underground or enclosed in the tower.
h. Safety: WTG-Small shall have an automatic braking, governing or feathering system and shall be
maintained in accordance with Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed standards.
i. Blade clearance: The minimum blade tip clearance from grade, structure or appurtenance shall be
fifteen feet (15’)
j. Tower: Shall be a free-standing monopole (guy wires are not permitted) that shall meet or exceed tower
specifications provided by the manufacturer of the generator or have a design approved by an
independent professional engineer licensed in the State of Michigan.
k. Shadow flicker: The WTG – Small shall be designed, sited and operated in such a manner to minimize
shadow flicker on a roadway. In addition, the WTG – Small shall be designed, sited and operated in a
manner to prevent shadow flicker on any existing structures located off the property on which the WTG
– Small is erected. The owner and/or operator shall prohibit shadow flicker on any future lawfully
constructed structure located off the property on which the WTG-Small is erected.
l. Sale of electric power via net metering is permitted per applicable state law.
m. The WTG – Small shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness. Excessively bright or neon colors are not acceptable. The Planning
Commission, however, may approve an alternate color if the WTG – Small is located within an avian
migratory route or if an alternate color would otherwise benefit the neighborhood.
n. The WTG – Small shall not be artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the FAA. Where the
FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations, the
fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility
from the ground, and no strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the FAA.
o. The WTG – Small shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that access is limited, to the
extent possible, to authorize personnel only.
p. The WTG – Small shall be constructed and operated so that it does not interfere with television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception in neighboring areas. If degradation of television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception occurs as the result of the WTG – Small, the owner and/or
operator shall take such action as to correct the television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave
reception.
q. The WTG – Small shall have no advertising painted on or attached to the tower or any other structure of
the WTG.
r. A WTG – Small that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be removed by
the owner of the WTG within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice from the county requiring removal.
s. The owner shall be responsible for the ongoing compliance with the standards of this ordinance.

XXI-50
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance