parked on the access site except for those areas more than one hundred sixty feet (160’) from the ordinary
high-water mark as outlined in
18.11 S-2.
SECTION 18.11 SITE DESIGN STANDARDS
The following standards shall be used for development and use of non-public lakefront access sites. These
standards do not preclude, and are in addition to, standards set forth by the zoning districts established and
other Articles contained within this ordinance.
S-1 There shall be a minimum setback line of two hundred thirty-five feet (235’), as measured from the
ordinary high-water mark, landward, at ninety degrees (90°) and/or radial to the shoreline, to any
property line, dwelling unit or room. [Refer to Rule 3 for increase of setback line.]
S-2 There shall be a minimum of one hundred sixty feet (160’), as measured from the ordinary high-water
mark, landward, at ninety degrees (90°) and/or radial to the shoreline. This shall be the minimum
depth of open land.
S-3 The area between number one (1) and two (2) of this section may be used as a parking area, as
required in Section 18.10.6.
S-4 The following components, equations and rules shall be used in determining the minimum open land
area in square feet, minimum lake frontage in lineal feet, and maximum number of dwelling units or
rooms to utilize the non-public lakefront access site.
FORMULA COMPONENTS
A. Number of dwelling units, condominium dwelling units and motel/hotel rooms
B. Eight thousand square feet [8,000 sq. ft. is the minimum amount of open land area per dwelling unit or
room]
C. Fifty feet (50’) [required amount of lake shoreline per dwelling unit or room]
D. Total amount required of lake shoreline in linear feet
E. Total amount required of open land area in square feet
Rule 1 In instances where the number of dwelling units or rooms is known, the following equations shall be
used to determine minimum amount of open land area in square footage (E), and the minimum amount of
lake-shoreline in linear feet (D).
Equations: A x B = (E)

A x C = (D)

Rule 2 In instances where the amount of open land area (square footage) and lake-shoreline (linear feet) is
known, the following equations shall be used to determine the maximum number of dwelling units or rooms
(A) permitted to use the open land area. The lesser of either equation shall be used as the maximum number
of dwelling units or rooms permitted.
D
Equation:

E
= (A)

C

= (A)
B

Rule 3 In instances where a lakefront access site is a combination of open land area (S-6) per dwelling unit
or room, it shall not be permitted to include wetlands (S-7); the setback line as in (S-1) shall be increased in
the following manner:
Equation

(A x 11,750 sq. ft.) + (Wetland sq. ft.)
= Setback line (ft.)
(A x C)

S-5 When determining the minimum square footage of open land area (S-6) per dwelling unit or room, it
shall not be permitted to include wetlands (S-7). [Refer to Rule 3]
XVIII-4
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance