21.25.1.5 If necessary to protect the welfare of surrounding properties the access routes serving the site may
be specified by the Planning Commission with input from the Otsego County Road Commission.
21.25.1.6 All structures, equipment and machinery shall be considered temporary and shall be removed upon
completion of the mining, excavation, extraction or filling. Items not related to the operation shall not be
stored at the site.
21.25.1.7 Interior access roads, parking lots, haul road loading and unloading areas shall be maintained so as
to limit the nuisance caused by windblown dust.
21.25.1.8 The operation of mechanical equipment of any kind may be limited by the day(s) and/or hours by
the Planning Commission.
21.25.1.9 Processing may be limited to only the materials extracted from the site. If the Operator intends to
bring in off-site materials, Planning Commission approval is required.
21.25.1.10 Air pollution, noise and vibration factors shall be controlled within the limits governed by State
and/or Federal regulations applicable to the facility.
21.25.1.11 All required Soil Erosion permit(s) shall be secured prior to the commencement of any operation.
The Soil Erosion permit shall be issued for the same period of time as the permit for the operation and
reclamation.
21.25.2 Reclamation:
INTENT
To prevent negative impacts to soil, water and air resources in and near mined areas. To restore the
quality of the soils to their pre-mining level and to maintain or improve landscape visual and functional
quality. All reclamation plans shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, Local and Tribal laws
related to mining and mined land reclamation.
21.25.2.1 Develop a reclamation plan that is consistent with the site capability, the planned land use and the
landowner's conservation objectives. Include the practices necessary to reclaim and stabilize the mined
areas to prevent further degradation of soil, water, air, plant and animal resources.
21.25.2.2 Dust control. Control the generation of particulate matter and fugitive dust during removal and
replacement of soil and other materials. Detail the practices and activities necessary for dust control in
the plans and specifications.
21.25.2.3 Properly identify areas for preservation including those containing trees, vegetation, historic
structures, stream corridors, natural springs or other important features.
21.25.2.4 Remove trees, logs, brush, rubbish and other debris from disturbed areas that will interfere with
reconstruction and reclamation operations. Dispose of these undesirable materials so they will not create a
resource problem or interfere with reclamation activities and the planned land use.
21.25.2.5 Shape the land surface to provide adequate surface drainage and to blend into the surrounding
topography. Use erosion control practices to reduce slope lengths where sheet and rill erosion will exceed
acceptable levels.
21.25.2.6 Use sediment trapping practices such as filter strips, riparian forest buffers, contour buffer strips,
sediment basins or similar practices to trap sediment before it leaves the project site. Establish drainage ways
with sufficient capacity and stability to carry concentrated runoff from the reclaimed area into receiving
streams without causing erosion.
21.25.2.7 Do site preparation, planting and seeding at a time and in a manner to ensure survival and growth
of the selected species. In the plans and specifications, identify the criteria for successful establishment of
vegetation such as minimum percent ground/canopy cover, percent survival and irrigation for initial
establishment or stand density. Apply soil amendments and or plant nutrients as appropriate, according to
XXI-21
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance