for sale in any district - All such signs shall be removed within fourteen (14) days of the consummated
lease or sale of the premises.
21.38.5.11 Accessory directional signs affixed to the building and not exceeding 2 sq. ft., such as but not
necessarily limited to: Boiler Room, Entrance, Exit, Garage, Loading Dock, Low Clearance, Office,
Service, Warehouse and the like.
21.38.5.12 Maximum of two (2) accessory properties directional signs each not to exceed 2 sq. ft.
identifying or directing to the following: Entrance, Exit, No Parking, Visitors Parking, Other Traffic
Flow Directions, and similar Functional Signs
21.38.5.13 Temporary advertising banners that are flexible (made of canvas, plastic composite etc.) meant
to be attached to a fixed commercial building structure which is currently occupied. All banners may not
exceed 32 sq. ft. and must be maintained in good condition while displayed.
21.38.5.14 Political signs shall be permitted in all zoning districts with the following three (3) Regulations:
Regulation 1: Such signs shall follow the Accessory Signs restrictions as it relates to each individual
Zoning District.
Regulation 2: Such signs for election candidate or ballot propositions shall be displayed only for a
period of sixty (60) days preceding the election and shall be removed within ten (10) days
after the election, provided that signs promoting successful candidates or ballot
propositions in a primary election may remain displayed until not more than ten (10) days
after the general election.
Regulation 3: Such signs shall not be placed in any public right-of-way or obstruct traffic visibility.
21.38.6 Placement of Signs and Setbacks
21.38.6.1 Signs in rights-of-way
No sign other than an official traffic sign shall be erected within any public right-of-way unless specifically
authorized by other ordinances or regulations of this jurisdiction or by specific authorization of the code
official.
21.38.6.2 Sign and Setbacks
Signs in any zoning district must be placed at least two feet (2’) back from any right of way and any lot line.
21.38.7 Off-Premises Directory Sign – Private
21.38.7.1
Where a business use or tourist service facility is not located directly on a major tourist route but is
dependent upon passerby traffic for support, one (1) off-premises directory sign located on a countymaintained road may be permitted in business or non-business districts, on each road or link or segment of
road that affords access to the use but entails a major change in the direction of travel.
Off-premises Directory signs shall not exceed an area of 15 sq. ft. Community directional signs serving
more than one (1) use may be permitted to a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.
21.38.8 Approval Authority
21.38.8.1
The Zoning Administrator shall review and act upon site plans except where a Special Use Permit is
required. Site Plans for a Special Use Permit shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to the
Planning Commission for review and action. In addition, at the request of the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission, a site plan for a Principal Permitted Use may be submitted for Planning Commission
review before final action by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator and Planning
Commission have the authority to approve, deny or grant conditional approval for any site plan submitted
under the provisions of this ordinance. The Zoning Administrator may hold or the Planning Commission
XXI-41
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance