Has either a gross vehicle weight rating or actual gross weight or gross combination weight rating or an
actual gross combination weight of ten thousand and one pounds (10,001 lbs.) or more;
Is designed for carrying sixteen (16) or more passengers, including the driver;
Is used in the transportation of hazardous materials in a quantity that requires the vehicle to be marked or
placarded.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: Means a plan or project consisting of not less than two (2) condominium
units if established and approved in conformance with the Condominium Act (Act 59, 1978).
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION: A division of land on the basis of condominium ownership, which is
not subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended.
Any "condominium unit", or portion thereof, consisting of vacant land shall be equivalent to the term "lot"
for the purposes of determining compliance of a condominium subdivision with the provisions of this
ordinance pertaining to minimum lot size, minimum lot width, and maximum lot coverage.
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN: The drawings attached to the master deed for a condominium
subdivision which describes the size, location, area, horizontal and vertical boundaries and volume of each
condominium unit contained in the condominium subdivision, as well as the nature, location and size of
common elements.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT: Means that portion of a condominium project or condominium subdivision
which is designed and intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed, regardless
of whether it is intended for residential, office, industrial, business, recreational, use as a time-share unit, or
any other type of use. A condominium unit may consist of either vacant land or space which either encloses
or is enclosed by a building structure.
CONTINUOUS SOUND: Any sound with a duration of more than one second, as measured with a sound
level meter set to the fast meter response.
COUNTY: Where used in this Ordinance, shall mean the County of Otsego, State of Michigan.
COURTYARD: An unroofed area that is completely or mostly enclosed by the walls of a large building.
DECIBEL: A unit of sound pressure level on a logarithmic scale measured relative to the threshold of
audible sound by the human ear, in compliance with the American National Standards Institute Standard
S1.4-1983, or its successor provision.
DEVELOPMENT: The construction of a new building or other structure on a zoning lot, the relocation of
an existing building on another zoning lot, or the use of open land for a new use.
DISTRICT: A portion of the county lying outside the limits of incorporated cities and villages of the
county within which certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the
provisions of this Ordinance (also a zone).
DRIVE-IN: A business establishment so developed that its retail or service character is dependent on
providing a driveway approach or parking area for vehicles, so customers may receive goods or services for
use or consumption on the premises while remaining in their vehicles.
DRIVE-THROUGH: A business establishment so developed that it’s retail or service character is dependent
on providing a driveway approach and vehicle service window for vehicle access so customers may receive
goods or services for use or consumption off the premises.
DRIP LINE: An imaginary line drawn around the base of a tree to connect the points where drips would fall
straight down from the outermost tips of the tree's branches. The drip line generally delineates the ground area
containing the root system near the surface which is most sensitive to disturbance
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one (1) or more
persons including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing not more than one (1) dwelling unit designed for
residential use for a single-family [See Article 17]
II-5
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance