26.4.8 The Zoning Board of Appeals shall only hear and decide a specific case that must include a public
hearing.
26.4.9 The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is necessary to reverse
an order, requirement, decision, or determination of the administrative official or body, to decide in favor of
the applicant on a matter upon which the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to pass under the zoning
ordinance, or to grant a variance in the zoning ordinance. [Sec. 3603 (2)]
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall state the grounds of any determination made by the board. [Sec. 3604
(2)]
26.4.10 A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals who is also a member of the Planning Commission shall not
participate in a public hearing on or vote on the same issue as a member of both bodies. However, the
member may consider and vote on other unrelated matters involving the same property. [Sec. 3601 (13)]
SECTION 26.5 USE VARIANCE
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give the Zoning Board of Appeals the power or authority to
change the Zoning Ordinance or the Zoning Map so as to allow a use of land that is not permitted in the district
in which the property is located.
SECTION 26.6 DIMENSIONAL OR NON-USE VARIANCE
Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would involve
“practical difficulties” within the meaning of this Ordinance, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall have power
upon appeal in specific cases to authorize such variation or modification as may be in harmony with the spirit of
this Ordinance, and so that public safety and welfare be secured and substantial justice done. No such variance
or modification of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be granted unless it appears that there is clear and
convincing evidence that all the following facts and conditions exist:
26.6.1 That the requested variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare or otherwise injurious to other
properties in the same zoning district.
26.6.2 That the requested variance is necessary for the applicant to receive a right available to other properties
in the same zoning district.
26.6.3 That special physical conditions or unique circumstances exist with this property and do not generally
apply to other properties in the same zoning district.
26.6.4 That the special conditions or circumstances are not the result of actions by the applicant or predecessor
in title.
26.6.5 That the requested variance is the minimum variance necessary that will make possible the reasonable
use of the land.
SECTION 26.7 TIME LIMITS
Each variance granted under the provisions of this Ordinance shall become null and void unless:
The construction authorized by such variance has received a County zoning permit within one (1) year after the
granting of the variance; and the occupancy of land, premises, or buildings authorized by the variance has taken
place within one (1) year after the granting of the variance, unless an extension of time has been granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
SECTION 26.8 DECISION AS FINAL – APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT
26.8.1 The decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final. A party aggrieved by the decision may
appeal to the circuit court for the county in which the property is located. [Sec. 3605]
26.8.2 An appeal under this section shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the Zoning Board of Appeals
certifies its decision in writing or approves the minutes of its decision. The court shall have jurisdiction to
make such further orders as justice may require. [Sec. 3606]
XXV1-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance