25.3.2 Zoning Permits
25.3.2.1 When required: A zoning permit is required before any activity listed in Section 25.3.1 is
initiated, or before any activity otherwise specifically requiring a zoning permit in another section of this
ordinance is begun.
25.3.2.2 Expiration of permit: Any permit granted under this Section shall become null and void after
twelve (12) months from the date of granting such permit unless the development proposed or activity
authorized shall have passed its first building inspection. Before voidance is actually declared, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of such voiding action by sending a notice to the applicant
at the address indicated on the permit application at least ten (10) days before such voidance is effective.
The permit shall be renewable upon reapplication and upon payment of an original fee, provided the
provisions of all ordinances in effect at the time of renewal are complied with.
25.3.2.3 Revocation: The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to revoke or cancel any Zoning
Permit in case of failure or neglect to comply with any provisions of this Ordinance, or in the case of any
false statement or misrepresentation made in the application. The owner or his agent shall be notified of
such revocation in writing. The Zoning Administrator may issue a stop work order if necessary or
desirable to prevent further ordinance violation. Upon such revocation, all further construction activities
and usage shall cease upon the site, except as allowed by the Zoning Administration for the purpose of
correcting the violation. Cancellation of a permit issued for a Special Land Use, Planned Unit
Development or Variance shall not occur before a hearing by the body which granted the permit.
The Zoning Administrator may issue a stop work order to halt all construction activities and usage pending a
decision on cancellation of said permit.
25.3.2.4 Fees: Fees for review of development proposals, inspections and the issuance of permits or
certificates required under this Ordinance shall be deposited with the County Clerk in advance of
processing any application or issuance of any permit. The amount of such fees shall be established by the
County Board of Commissioners by resolution and shall cover the cost of inspection and supervision
resulting from the enforcement of this Ordinance. Such fees may include all costs associated with
conducting a public hearing or inspection, including the newspaper notice, postage, photocopying, staff
time, Planning Commission, Board of Commissioners and/or Zoning Board of Appeals time, mileage and
any costs associated with reviews by qualified professional planners and/or engineers. Such fees may be
collected in escrow with any unexpended balance returned to an applicant according to the procedure
described below:
25.3.2.4.1 For any application for approval of a Site Plan, Special Land Use, Planned Unit Development,
variance, or other use or activity requiring a permit under this Ordinance, either the Zoning
Administrator or the Planning Commission may require the deposit of fees to be held in escrow in the
name of the applicant. An escrow fee shall be required for any project with more than ten (10)
dwelling units, or more than 10,000 sq. ft. of enclosed space, or which requires any more than twenty
(20) parking spaces. An escrow fee may be requested for any other project which may, in the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, create an identifiable and potentially
negative impact on public infrastructure or services, or on adjacent properties and, because of which,
professional input is desired before a decision to approve, deny or approve with conditions is made.
25.3.2.4.2 The escrow shall be used to pay professional review expenses of engineers, community
planners, and any other professionals whose expertise the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission or County Board of Commissioners values to review the proposed application and/or site
plan of an applicant. Professional review shall result in a report to the County indicating the extent of
conformance or nonconformance with this Ordinance and to identify any problems which may create a
threat to public health, safety or the general welfare. Mitigation measures or alterations to a proposed
design may be required to be identified where they would serve to lessen or eliminate identified
impacts. The applicant shall receive a copy of any professional review hired by the County and a copy
of the statement of expenses for the professional services rendered.
XXV-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance