18.8.3 Existing grade elevations represented by contour lines at five-foot (5’) intervals from the normal highwater level inland to a depth of ten feet (10’) beyond the landward extent of the Shoreland Zone.
18.8.4 Existing structures, docks, walls, steps or any man-made improvements.
18.8.5 Complete the plan by showing the proposed change that would be made if the application is accepted
and approval granted by the Planning Commission.
SECTION 18.9 NON-PUBLIC LAKEFRONT ACCESS SITES
INTENT
This Article establishes development standards for "Non-Public Lakefront Access Sites" to inland lakes.
Non-Public Lakefront Access Sites are a Permitted Use Subject to Special Conditions on riparian shoreland
of inland lakes.
The intent of this Article is to protect the property values, riparian rights and recreational qualities of
lakefront property in Otsego County. The regulations guide the development and reasonable use of
shoreland areas adjacent to inland lakes while seeking to prevent water pollution, retain vegetative cover,
preserve the natural aesthetics of waterfront properties and prevent the recreational overuse and abuse of
inland lakes in the County.
The following standards are applicable to "Non-Public Lakefront Access Sites" located on shorelands of
inland lakes and are not applicable to rivers, streams, creeks or other surface waters not classified as an
inland lake.
The standards do pertain to the development of a "Non-Public Lakefront Access Site" for the common use of
person(s) (family) who own, rent or lease residential lots, dwellings(s) and room(s).
Further, the design standards of the OPEN LAND AREA and shoreline length of the lakefront access site,
Section 18.11, are based on the number of lots and/or dwellings and/or rooms having access rights to the
lakefront site. A marina shall follow applicable state law, including the Inland Lakes and Streams Act of
1972, as amended.
SECTION 18.10 DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
For the purpose of administering this Article, the following definitions of terms and provisions are provided:
18.10.1 Dwelling Unit as defined in this Ordinance
18.10.2 Room(s): a dwelling unit primarily for transient use and/or as is usually associated with motels,
hotels and motor lodges
18.10.3 Nonpublic Lakefront Access Site is a private waterfront facility with water-related recreational areas,
co-owned and/or caused by a selected group of persons owning, renting or leasing residential and/or
commercial real estate which may be used in conjunction with the private waterfront facility
18.10.4 Recreational area such as parks, beaches, camping facilities, parkways and similar activities operated
by any governmental agencies, and located in lakefront property with riparian rights, are not subject to the
standards set forth in this Article, provided they are intended for the use of the general-public
No riparian property providing non-public lakefront access to a commonly owned riparian parcel of land
shall have these rights only by deeded conveyance assigned to the non-riparian property. These riparian
rights to the waterfront property shall not be sold, rented or leased to others unless such rights are conveyed
by the selling, leasing or renting of the non-riparian property.
18.10.5 A private parking area for vehicles and/or boat trailers shall be permitted provided: these areas must
be at least one hundred sixty feet (160’) from the ordinary high-water mark, and used only by those
having privileges to the lake access.
18.10.6 Camping by tents, motor homes, trailers or other means, shall not be permitted within the boundaries
of the "Non-Public Lakefront Access Sites," nor shall private property, whether owned, leased, rented or
borrowed, be stored overnight or kept on the site when the user is not present. Neither shall vehicles be
XVIII-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance