21.25.4 Plans and Specifications:
21.25.4.1 Plans and specification for Land Reclamation-Currently Mined Land shall be in keeping with this
standard and shall describe the requirements for applying the practice to achieve its intended purpose.
21.25.5 Application Procedure:
An application for Mining- Gravel, Sand, Clay, Top Soil or Marl, shall contain all of the following:
21.25.5.1 Name and address of owner(s) of land where mining, excavation, extraction or filling are proposed
to take place.
21.25.5.2 Name, address and telephone number of persons, firm or corporation who will be conducting the
actual operation. This person, firm or corporation shall be referred to as operator.
21.25.5.3 A current Survey and legal description of the site where the proposed operation is to take place.
21.25.5.4 A site plan complying with all requirements of Article 20 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance
in addition to showing all of the following:
a. The proposed mining area:
Setbacks in which no part of the mining operation may take place excepting ingress and egress shall
be as follows:
Excavation below the existing grade of adjacent roads or property lines shall not take place within
fifty feet (50’) minimum from any adjacent property line or road right-of-way line. This shall
include any sloping during the reclamation of the site.
On any site that is adjacent to lakes, rivers, streams or flowages of water that appear on most
Geological Survey Quadrangle maps, the Otsego County Planning Commission reserves the right to
increase the minimum set-back from the ordinary high-water mark, to a distance greater than fifty
feet (50’) to ensure the maintenance of safe healthy conditions on the shorelands within Otsego
County.
b. The placement of all equipment to be used during the operation.
No machinery shall be erected or maintained within one hundred feet (100’) of any property or road
right-of-way line.
c. Required screening of the site shall be in compliance with standards of Section 21.18 of the Otsego
County Zoning Ordinance.
If the operator chooses to use a berm to achieve the required screening, the berms shall be placed no
closer than twenty feet (20’) to any property line.
d. The proposed ingress and egress at the site and route(s) to be used to access the site when not located on
a primary road. The route(s) for ingress and egress when not located on a primary road shall have
written approval from the Otsego County Road Commission.
The operator shall be responsible for all road damage to public roads caused as a result of the
operation.
e. The type and location of any proposed accessory uses. The Planning Commission may approve vehicle
maintenance, sorting, crushing, concrete mixing, asphalt batching and other uses as accessory uses
subject to conditions placed upon the accessory uses.
21.25.6 Operational Plan Including the Following:
21.25.6.1 The Operational plan shall be in written form.
21.25.6.2 The written plan shall indicate the proposed size, depths, methods of operation, and type of
material(s) to be mined, excavated, extracted or filled.
XXI-23
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance