Said Citation shall be in writing and shall specify all circumstances found to be in violation. Said Citation
shall contain the name and address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the zoning
ordinance section violated, time, place and location of the alleged violation, the place where the alleged
violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court, and the time at or by which the appearance
shall be made pursuant to the Otsego County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
25.4.3 Service of Notice: Notice shall be directed to each owner of, or a party in interest, in whose name the
property appears on the last local tax assessment records. As provided by Section 3.2(g)(2) of the Otsego
County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance, a copy of the Notice of Violation or the Citation may be
served upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting a copy of the citation upon
the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. A copy of the notice and if necessary a copy of
the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last
known address.
25.4.4 Violation: All ordinance violations which constitute a Municipal Civil Infraction and upon which the
owner or party in interest has received a civil infraction notice or citation, the alleged violator shall admit
responsibility by mail or may admit responsibility “with explanation” by mail, or deny responsibility and
appear at an informal hearing or formal hearing at the district court pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Otsego
County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
25.4.5 Hearing: All ordinance violations which constitute a Municipal Civil Infraction and for which the
alleged violator has denied responsibility, the party may appear in person for an informal hearing before a
judge or magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an attorney, unless a formal hearing
before a judge is requested by the county, or by appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with
the opportunity of being represented by an attorney pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Otsego County Municipal
Civil Infraction Ordinance.
25.4.6 Legal Action: If the owner or party in interest fails to appear, admit responsibility, pay the civil fine or
neglects to correct the violation within the time period specified by the district court magistrate or judge, the
county enforcement officer, county zoning administrator, county building inspector, or other personnel of the
county authorized by the Otsego County Board of Commissioners to issue municipal civil infraction citations
or violation notices shall transfer a report to the County Attorney recommending the appropriate action be
taken. The County Attorney may then initiate prosecution proceedings. If the threat of public health and or
safety necessitates immediate action, this procedure may be circumscribed and the County may initiate
injunctive action in Circuit Court or any such other remedy provided by Law.
SECTION 25.5 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
25.5.1 Municipal Civil Infraction: Any land clearing, or any building, structure or use constructed, altered,
moved or maintained in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance or in violation of a permit or approval
issued by a body or official under this Ordinance is hereby declared to be a Municipal Civil Infraction.
25.5.2 Penalties and Sanctions for Violations: The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil
infraction shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by the Section 3.6 of the Otsego County Municipal
Civil Infraction Ordinance, plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized under
Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, and other applicable laws.
25.5.3 Remedies: The County Board of Commissioners, the county zoning enforcement officer, county zoning
administrator, county building inspector or other authorized personnel of the county may institute injunction,
mandamus, abatement or other appropriate proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any violations of
this Ordinance.
The imposition of a civil fine shall not exempt the violator from compliance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.

XXV-5
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance