ARTICLE 25 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 25.1 ADMINISTRATION
The administration and enforcement of this Ordinance shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator
and County Board of Commissioners. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners; he or she shall not be a member of the County Board of Commissioners.
SECTION 25.2 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce the provisions of this
Ordinance and in doing so shall perform the following duties:
25.2.1 Issue Permits: All applications for zoning permits, temporary zoning permits, special land use permits,
planned unit development permits, variances, appeals, requests for Ordinance interpretation and requests for
changes to a nonconforming use shall first be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who may issue such
permits when all applicable provisions of this Ordinance have been met and following approval by the
proper body or official.
25.2.2 File of Applications: The Zoning Administrator shall maintain files of all permit applications, and shall
keep a record of all permits issued; these files shall be open for public inspection.
25.2.3 Inspections: The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to make inspections of buildings or
premises in order to carry out the administration and enforcement of this Ordinance. No person shall molest
the Zoning Administrator in the discharge of his/her duties. The Zoning Administrator shall seek a search
warrant through the County Attorney any time a property owner refuses access to a property in order to
inspect to determine compliance with this Ordinance.
25.2.4 Record of Complaints: The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of every complaint of a violation
of any of the provisions of this Ordinance, and of the action taken consequent to each complaint; such
records shall be open for public inspection.
25.2.5 Violations: Enforcement actions may be initiated by a complaint, or by the Zoning Administrator
independently anytime he or she identifies a violation.
25.2.6 Report to the County Board of Commissioners: The Zoning Administrator shall report to the County
Board of Commissioners periodically at intervals not greater than quarterly, summarizing for the period
since the last previous report all Zoning Permits issued and all complaints of violation and any action taken
on each complaint.
Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator permitted to make changes in this Ordinance, nor to vary
the terms of this Ordinance while carrying out the duties prescribed herein.
SECTION 25.3 PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS
It is the intent and purpose of this Section to create a review and permit process for the administration of this
Ordinance. The primary process shall require the issuance of one (1) permit which shall be the Zoning Permit.
Issuance of such a Permit, pursuant to Section 25.3, shall indicate that the plans and specifications for any
particular land use that has been requested, complies with the Zoning Ordinance.
25.3.1 Jurisdiction: No land clearing shall be initiated; the excavation for any building or structure shall not be
commenced; the erection of, addition to, alteration of (including porches, decks, patios or terraces), or
moving of any building or structure shall not be undertaken; or any land shall not be used; or any existing
land use changed to a different type or class; or the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or part
thereof, hereafter shall not be undertaken, without the issuance of the proper and appropriate certificates and
permits pursuant to the requirements of Sections 25.3.2 and 25.3.3 of this Ordinance. Except upon written
order of the Zoning Board of Appeals, no Zoning Permit shall be issued for any building or use of land
where the construction, addition, alteration, or use thereof would be in violation of this Ordinance.
XXV-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance