rehabilitation work performed. The evaluation shall consider, among other things, the degree of difficulty to
complete any remaining rehabilitation, whether pollution of surface and subsurface water is occurring, the
probability of continuance of future occurrence of the pollution, and the estimated cost of abating the
pollution. Within thirty (30) days after the inspection, the Zoning Administrator shall send written
recommendations to the Planning Commission indicating approval, partial approval, rejection, or
approval with conditions, of the rehabilitation work performed by the applicant, along with a statement of the
reasons for any rejections.
The Planning Commission shall approve, partially approve, or reject the rehabilitation work performed
by the applicant with the recommendation of the Zoning Administrator's written statement, and shall
notify the applicant in writing of the action of the Planning Commission. Where partial approval is granted
the applicant shall be refunded a portion of the performance guarantee that is proportionate to the cost
of the rehabilitation work approved. Upon approval or partial approval by the Planning Commission, the
County Clerk shall refund the performance guarantee or a portion thereof as specified by the Planning
Commission to the applicant.
21.25.10 Inspection:
21.25.10.1 Mining, excavation, extraction or filling permits granted for a period exceeding one (1) year shall
be inspected a minimum of once a year during the operation period and a minimum of each one hundred
(100) days during restoration, by the Zoning Administrator to insure compliance with the permit and
Ordinance. The operator shall pay an inspection fee, as determined by the Otsego County Board of
Commissioners, for each inspection to cover the costs of extraction and reclamation inspections required
by this section within thirty (30) days of the invoice being sent to them or they will be in violation of the
Special Use Permit.
21.25.11 Certificate of Completion:
21.25.11.1 A certificate of completion shall be issued to the operator when the Zoning Administrator makes
the following determination.
21.25.11.2 All evidence of the operation has been removed from the site.
21.25.11.3 All required grading of the site has been completed.
21.25.11.4 All required re-vegetation of the site has been completed and initial growth has begun and there is
no erosion present.
21.25.11.5 Completion and approval of the soil erosion permit has been given.
21.25.12 Evidence of Continuing Use:
21.25.12.1 When activities on or the use of the mining area, or any portion thereof, have ceased for more than
one (1) year or when, by examination of the premises or other means, the Zoning Administrator determines
a manifestation of intent to abandon the mining area, the Zoning Administrator shall give the operator
written notice of their intention to declare the mining area or portion thereof abandoned. Within thirty (30)
days following receipt of said notice, the operator shall have the opportunity to rebut the Zoning
Administrator's evidence and submit other relevant evidence to the contrary. If the Zoning Administrator
finds the operator's evidence of continued use satisfactory, he/she shall not declare abandonment.
21.25.13 Transference of a Special Use Permit:
21.25.13.1 Permits for surface mining shall be issued to the operator. If an operator disposes of his interest in
an extraction area prior to final reclamation by sale, lease, assignment, termination of lease, or otherwise,
the Planning Commission may release the operator from the duties imposed upon him by this Ordinance,
as to the operation, but only if the successor, operator, or property owner assumes the obligations of the
former operator with reference to the reclamation activities. At that time the Special Use Permit may be
transferred.
XXI-25
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance