SECTION 21.37 SHOOTING RANGE
Minimum lot size for an outdoor shooting range shall be forty (40) acres.
SECTION 21.38 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Amended 3.29.2018
Amended 8.12.2025

INTENT
The sign standards contained in this Ordinance are declared to be necessary to protect the general health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Otsego County.
It is the intent of this regulation to insure a degree of standardization in signage throughout the county,
to insure the safety of pedestrians and motorists who must drive or otherwise negotiate installed signage
and motorists who depend on the visibility of a sign’s message to safely arrive at an intended
destination. Standardization will preserve the aesthetics, appearance and functionality of all installed
signage.
Any publicly displayed sign, symbol or notice on premises to indicate the name of the occupant, to
advertise the business there transacted, or directing to some other locale, shall be regulated as
follows, and shall require permits in accordance with the terms of the County Building Code:
Sign plans shall be reviewed for approval, conditional approval or rejection by the Zoning
Administrator. For disagreements with the rulings of the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may
appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals, who in such instances has final authority on the sign plan.
The standards in this Article are determined to be the minimum necessary to achieve the above stated
purposes. Compliance with this Section does not relieve the applicant from the responsibility of
compliance with other local, state or federal sign regulations, nor does the issuance of a Sign Permit
grant permission to the applicant to place signs on any property, including road rights-of-way, other
than property owned or otherwise legally under the control of the applicant. The issuance of a Sign
Permit only assures the applicant that the sign meets the requirements of the County Zoning
Ordinance.
21.38.1 Signs Authorized and Requiring a Permit
All applications for a Sign Permit shall first be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Before any
permit is granted for the erection of a sign or sign structure requiring such permit, construction
documents shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator showing the dimensions, materials and required
details of construction, including loads, stresses, anchorage and any other pertinent data. The permit
application shall be accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is to be erected and by engineering calculations signed by a registered design
professional. The Zoning Administrator may issue such permits when all applicable provisions of this
Ordinance have been met.
21.38.1.1Accessory Signs
21.38.1.1.1 Districts: R1, R2, R3, RR
Number Allowed: One (1)
Maximum Height: Eight feet (8’)
Measured:
From the average grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign support.
Maximum Size: 15 sq. ft.
21.38.1.1.2 Districts: AR, FR
Number Allowed: One (1)
Maximum Height: Eight feet (8’)
Measured:
From the average grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign support.
Maximum Size: 32 sq. ft.
XXI-37
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance