21.48.3.10 Site Operation & Maintenance Plan - The project proponent shall submit a plan for the site
operation and maintenance of the medium-scale ground-mounted solar energy system, which shall
include measures for maintaining safe access to the installation, storm water controls, as well as general
procedures for operational maintenance of the installation.
21.48.3.11 Emergency Access – Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be located in such a manner as
to ensure emergency access to the roof, provide pathways to specific areas of the roof, provide for smoke
ventilation opportunities, and provide emergency egress from the roof.
a. For buildings with pitched roofs, solar collectors shall be located in a manner that provides a
minimum of one three-foot (3’) wide clear access pathway from the eave to the ridge on each roof
slope where solar energy systems are located as well as one three-foot (3’) smoke ventilation
buffer along the ridge.
b. Residential rooftops that are flat shall have a minimum three- foot (3’) wide clear perimeter and
commercial buildings that are flat shall have a minimum four-foot (4’) wide clear perimeter
between a solar energy system and the roofline, as well as a three-foot (3’) wide clear perimeter
around roof-mounted equipment such as HVAC units.
c. To the extent practicable, the access pathway shall be located at a structurally strong location
on the building (such as a bearing wall).
21.48.3.12 Safety – No roof-mounted solar energy system shall be located in a manner that would cause

the shedding of ice or snow from the roof into a porch, stairwell or pedestrian travel area.
21.48.3.13 Abandonment or Decommissioning
21.48.3.13.1 Removal Requirements
Any medium-scale ground-mounted solar energy system which has reached the end of its useful life or
has been abandoned consistent with Section 21.48.3.13.2 of this Ordinance shall be removed. The owner
or operator shall physically remove the installation no more than one hundred fifty (150) days after the
date of discontinued operations. The owner or operator shall notify the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator by certified mail of the proposed date of discontinued operations and plans for removal.
Decommissioning shall consist of:
a. Physical removal of all solar energy systems, structures, equipment, security barriers and transmission
lines from the site.
b. Disposal of all solid and Hazardous waste in accordance with local, state, and federal waste disposal
regulations
c. Stabilization or re-vegetation of the site as necessary to minimize erosion. The Planning Commission
or Zoning Administrator may allow the owner or operator to leave landscaping or designated belowgrade foundations in order to minimize erosion and disruption to vegetation.
21.48.3.13.2 Abandonment
Absent notice of a proposed date of decommissioning or written notice of extenuating circumstances, the
medium ground-mounted solar energy system shall be considered abandoned when it fails to operate for
more than one (1) year without the written consent of the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator.
If the owner or operator of the solar energy system fails to remove the installation in accordance with the
requirements of this section within one hundred fifty (150) days of abandonment or the proposed date of
decommissioning, the County retains the right, after the receipt of an appropriate court order, to enter and
remove an abandoned, hazardous, or decommissioned medium-scale ground-mounted solar energy
system. As a condition of Site Plan approval, the applicant and landowner shall agree to allow entry to
remove an abandoned or decommissioned installation. Any cost which results from the removal of
abandoned or decommissioned solar energy system components will be charged to party responsible for
XXI-63
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance