proceed with and complete the demolition/removal, restoring the premises to an acceptable condition as
reasonably determined by the Zoning Administrator.
21.46.4.3 If the required removal of a facility or a portion thereof has not been lawfully completed within
sixty (60) days of the applicable deadline, and after at least thirty (30) days written notice, the County
may remove or secure the removal of the facility or required portions thereof, with its actual cost and
reasonable administrative charge to be drawn or collected and /or enforced from or under the security
posted at the time application was made for establishing the facility.
21.46.5
All towers in Section 21.46 must comply with FCC and FAA regulations.
SECTION 21.47 WIND GENERATION
The purpose of this section is to establish requirements for the location of WIND TURBINE GENERATORS
(WTG), commonly known as wind turbines or windmills, and anemometer towers. The county recognizes that
it is in the public interest to permit the location of wind turbine generators within the county. As such, this
ordinance seeks to:
a. Regulate the development of renewable energy resources in a prudent manner.
b. Protect all areas of the County from any potential adverse impacts of WTG and anemometer towers;
c. Regulate the location of WTG and anemometer towers within Otsego County;
d. Protect the public health, safety and welfare;
e. Avoid potential damage to adjacent property from the failure of WTG and anemometer towers.
21.47.1 Zoning District Locations
WTG BUILDING-MOUNTED: Permitted as an accessory use to an allowed Principal Use in all Zoning
Districts. [See Section 21.47.2]
WTG SMALL: Permitted as an accessory use to an allowed Principal Use in all zoning districts. [See Section
21.47.3]
WTG MEDIUM: Permitted as an accessory use to an allowed Principal Use in AR, FR & I Zoning Districts.
[See Section 21.47.4]
WTG LARGE: Permitted Subject to Special Conditions in AR, FR. [See Section 21.47.5]
ANEMOMETER TOWER: Permitted Subject to Special Conditions in AR, FR. [See Section 21.47.6]
21.47.2 Wind Turbine Generator— BUILDING-MOUNTED
A zoning permit shall be issued only when the following requirements are met:
a. Zoning District: Permitted as an accessory use to an allowed Principal Permitted Use in all zoning
districts.
b. Height: The height of the WTG – BUILDING-MOUNTED shall not exceed fifteen feet (15’) as
measured from the highest point of the roof, excluding chimneys, antennae, and similar protuberances, to
the highest point of the wind turbine generator, regardless whether that point is on a fixed or mobile part
of the wind turbine generator.
c. Property Line Setback: Shall be no closer than the minimum specified in Article 17. No portion of the
wind turbine generator shall encroach into the required property line setback. If guy wires are used, their
anchors may not be closer than the minimum setback specified in Article 17.
d. Number of Units: All lots shall be allowed one (1) WTG – Building-Mounted provided all the
requirements for WTG – Building-Mounted are met.
XXI-47
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance