performance bond to cover the costs of such removal. If the performance bond is not sufficient to cover the
cost of the removal or the performance bond has expired or is not available, the County shall institute an
action in a court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of the cost for removal.
21.47.5.7 Duration of Permit for WTG – LARGE
A permit to operate a WTG – Large shall be valid for twenty (20) years with review of the operation by the
County Planning Commission at a public hearing every five (5) years.
21.47.5.8 Use of Current Technology
WTGs – Large shall be designed to the current state of the technology. Used, outdated or obsolete WTG –
Large equipment shall not be permitted to be constructed or installed. With respect to performance
standards set forth in this ordinance, repairs and parts replacement shall not be of lesser quality than that of
the original permitted equipment and shall be upgraded to the performance standards current at the time of
the repair. In no case shall repairs or alterations be allowed which will decrease the degree to which the
WTG – Large complies with this ordinance.
21.47.5.9 Major Equipment Replacement during Life of the Permit
Should the WTG – Large operator wish to replace major components such as turbine blades, generator, main
gear box, nacelle, or the entire WTG – Large, the operator shall demonstrate that the WTG – Large will
substantially meet the then current criteria for new WTG – Large permits, except that setback distances will
not be increased. In no case shall replacement or alterations be allowed which will decrease the degree to
which the WTG – Large complies with this ordinance.
21.47.5.10 WTG – LARGE Permit Renewal
At any time, the operator of a WTG – Large may elect to seek a new permit for a given site. A new WTG –
Large permit shall not allow aspects of the previous permit to be “grandfathered”. To qualify for a new
permit the WTG – Large installation shall meet all criteria of the then current standards.
21.47.6 Anemometer Towers
21.47.6.1 Application Requirements for Anemometer Towers
In addition to the application requirements of Article 19 of this ordinance, an application for a special use
permit for an anemometer tower shall include all the following information, unless expressly indicated
otherwise:
a. A site plan meeting all of the requirements of Article 23 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance shall be
provided.
b. All requirements of Article 19 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance shall be met.
c. A detailed analysis by a professional engineer, licensed in the State of Michigan, describing the specific
anemometer tower proposed and all phases for implementing the development in compliance with these
standards.
d. A resume’ or other written summary of the education, experience, and other qualifications of all experts
providing information concerning the anemometer tower project shall be provided.
e. A detailed written statement, with supporting evidence, demonstrating how the proposed anemometer
tower will comply with all of the standards for approval shall be provided.
f. Written documentation that the applicant has notified the FAA, Gaylord Regional Airport and any other
applicable state and federal regulatory agencies of the proposed anemometer tower.

XXI-57
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance