S-6 OPEN LAND AREA shall be defined as land which is not identified as Wetlands and may be graded
and/or filled and maintained in accordance with provisions set forth in "Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Part 91 of PA 451, as amended". Such grading and filling shall not commence prior to approval
of the Otsego County Enforcing Agency (Otsego County Zoning Administrator). Furthermore, the open
land area shall be unobstructed by structures/buildings, unless permitted by the Planning Commission by
the review procedures set forth in Article 18.12.
S-7 WETLANDS are defined in Article 2. Wetlands shall not be disturbed for any purpose, unless prior
approval is granted by the State Enforcing Agency (DNR) of Public Act 203, of 1979, known as the
Goemaere-Anderson Wetland Protection Act.
SECTION 18.12 SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
PURPOSE
The proper development and use of Otsego County's lakefront properties require that certain activities such
as the establishment of non-public lakefront access sites to provide recreational opportunities to a particular
riparian and/or non-riparian development be as compatible as possible to surrounding riparian land. To
ensure the compatibility of this conditional use of lakefront property with those uses generally permitted by
right on riparian lands, there shall be an individual review of each proposed non-public lakefront access site
in relationship with the character of the surrounding area, public services and facilities, and the use of
adjacent land.
The intent of this section is to establish equitable procedures to be used in the evaluation and approval or
disapproval of requests for non-public lakefront access sites which provide recreational opportunities to a
riparian and/or non-riparian development. The following site plan requirements shall be adhered to when
submitting an application under the provisions of this Article.
SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
The site plan shall include the following information and be accompanied with a narrative stating all
pertinent facts regarding the proposed activities:
18.12.1 A map with a scale of one inch (1”) equals fifty feet (50’) or fewer with accurate site measurements.
18.12.2 The number of dwelling units and/or rooms, cottages, etc. which the site will serve.
18.12.3 The landward boundary of the total area (minimum two hundred thirty-five feet (235’)) and end
boundaries of non-public lakefront access site.
18.12.4 The shoreline length in linear feet as measured along the ordinary high-water mark. Furthermore,
both end boundary lines shall terminate (or start) at each end of the required shoreline distance, as in
18.12.3 above.
18.12.5 The total number of parking spaces shall be stated and their location shown on the site plan drawing.
18.12.6 Site topography using a minimum of five-foot (5’) contour intervals and environmental features
including wetlands, surface drainage, vegetation and soils.
18.12.7 Proposed grading, filling or other earth changes of the required open land area within the lake access
site.
18.12.8 Proposed filling or dredging of wetlands and/or the shoreline of the property.
18.12.9 A description of any existing and proposed utility systems and their location shown on the site plan
drawing.
18.12.10 A description of the proposed improvements, whether permanent or temporary, to be made on the
lakefront property, including: boat docks, outdoor recreational equipment, fences, swimming rafts,
sanitary facilities, barricades and others with their location shown on the site plan drawing.
REVIEW PROCEDURE: For Site Plan Review procedures, See Article 23
XVIII-5
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance