21.34.1.2 Motor Vehicles
Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle for uses upon the
highways or waterways of the State of Michigan shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and no
vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled for a period of forty-eight (48) continuous hours. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless
conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exceptions:
1. A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul including body work, provided that
such work is performed inside a structure.
2. One (1) unlicensed vehicle that is used for snowplowing purposes shall be permitted.
3. One (1) additional vehicle that is kept under cover may be stored in the rear or side yard so as to be
inconspicuous to the public streets.
4. Agricultural Operations: Any vehicle or parts of vehicles that are part of a farm operation as defined
by the Michigan Right to Farm Act, 1980 P.A. NO. 93, MCL 286.471, et. seq, and conducted in
accordance with the State of Michigan’s Generally Accepted Agricultural and Management Practices
(GAAMPs) shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section 21.34 Restricted Uses.
SECTION 21.35 RIDING ACADEMY OR STABLE
21.35.1 Commercial stables and facilities for horseback riding may be allowed in the FR and AR Districts
provided that animal housing facilities are located at least three hundred feet (300’) from any off premises
residential structure.
21.35.2 The site plan for the use must be accompanied with the recommendations and/or approval of the
County animal control officer, regarding the effects of establishing the use in each specific case. The site
plan shall be submitted under provisions of Article 23.2.
21.35.3 Riding facilities in all other Districts may be allowed on farms of one hundred (100) acres or more on
a temporary permit basis, subject to a finding by the Planning Commission that there is protection for
developing residential uses including seasonal home areas.
SECTION 21.36 RECYCLING, FACILITIES, AND SOLID WASTE HAULERS
For the purpose of administering this Section, the following definition of terms and provisions are:
21.36.1 Recycled material means clean source separated materials, site separated materials, high grade paper,
glass, metal, plastic, aluminum, newspaper, corrugated paper and other materials that may be recycled
excluding tires.
21.36.2 Recycling facilities means a facility that accepts and processes recycled materials, which are stored in
buildings or containers.
21.36.3 Solid Waste Hauler means any person primarily engaged in the business of collecting, transporting and
delivery or transferring of solid waste within the County to a solid waste transfer station of landfill by the
person so hauling.
21.36.4 Solid waste means garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings,
municipal and industrial sludge, solid commercial and solid industrial waste and animal waste other than
organic waste generated in the production of livestock and poultry. Solid waste does not include source
separated material or site separated material.
21.36.5 Operators of recycling facilities may arrange the establishment of satellite recycling facilities at
commercial facilities, which are appropriately zoned with controlled access.
21.36.6 Satellite recycling facilities shall be exempt from Article 23 Site Plan Review. The site plan shall be
reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
XXI-36
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance