25.3.2.4.3 No application for approval for which an escrow fee is requested will be processed until the
escrow fee is deposited with the County Clerk. The amount of the escrow fee shall be established
based on an estimate of the cost of the services to be rendered by the professionals contacted by the
Zoning Administrator. The amount of the escrow fee shall be established based on an estimate of the
cost of the services to be rendered by the professionals contacted by the Zoning Administrator. The
applicant is entitled to a refund of any unused escrow fees at the time a permit is either issued or
denied in response to the applicant's request.
25.3.2.4.4 If actual professional review costs exceed the amount of an escrow, the applicant shall pay the
balance due prior to receipt of any Zoning Permit or other permit issued by the County in response to
the applicant's request.
25.3.2.5 Issuance: Whenever the buildings, structures, and uses as set forth in any application are in
conformity with the provisions of the Ordinance, or a variance granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals,
the Zoning Administrator shall issue the appropriate permit. In any case where a permit is refused, the
reasons shall be stated in writing to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall not refuse to issue a
permit when the procedures, standards, and/or conditions imposed by this Ordinance are in compliance by
the applicant despite violations of contracts, such as covenants, deed restrictions or other private
agreements which may occur upon the granting of said permits [but also see Section 25.3.2.7].
25.3.2.6 Withholding Permit: The Zoning Administrator may withhold any Zoning Permit pending
verification that an applicant has received required county, state or federal permits including septic and
water well permits, soil erosion and sedimentation control permits, wetlands permits, floodplain, culvert,
driveway or building permits. Likewise, wherever this Ordinance authorizes permit approval by the
Planning Commission or County Board of Commissioners, the Planning Commission or County Board of
Commissioners may condition final approval of the requested development activity upon the receipt of
any of the above-mentioned county, state or federal approvals and/or direct the Zoning Administrator not
to issue a Zoning Permit until said permits from other agencies have been obtained.
25.3.2.7 Relation to Nonconforming Uses: It shall not be necessary for an owner of a legal nonconforming
structure or use, existing on the effective date of this Ordinance to obtain a Zoning Permit in order to
maintain its legal, nonconforming status. However, no nonconforming building, structure, or use shall be
renewed, changed, or extended pursuant to Article 21.26 until a Zoning Permit has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator. In such cases the Permit shall state specifically how the nonconforming building,
structure, or use differs from the provisions of this Ordinance.
25.3.2.8 Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee may be required as a condition to the issuance
of any Zoning Permit, Special Land Use Permit, Planned Unit Development Permit, or Variance approval
in order to insure conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance. [See Section 25.6]
25.3.2.9 Occupancy Permit: No structure or use shall be occupied (except for a single-family dwelling in
zones permitting single family dwellings), without first receiving an Occupancy Permit. An Occupancy
Permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator following an inspection that confirms that all
requirements of a previously issued Zoning Permit, Special Land Use Permit, Planned Unit Development
Permit or Variance approval, if any, or if not, of this Ordinance have been met.
25.3.3 Zoning Permit Application: An application for a Zoning Permit for a land use not requiring Site Plan
Review shall be considered for approval by the Zoning Administrator when said application contains the
following:
25.3.3.1 Plot Plan: Two (2) copies of an accurate, readable, scale drawing showing the following shall be
required except in the case of minor alterations, repair, and demolitions as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall establish and make available in the office of the County
Clerk written guidelines as to the scale and level of detail needed on a plot plan for applications for
various types of uses requiring a Zoning Permit, or for information to be submitted to the Zoning Board
of Appeals in order to decide on an appeal, request for Ordinance interpretation or variance.
XXV-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance