or by contract to an independent developer, and assess all costs of completing the improvements or
conditions against the performance guarantee or bond. Any balance remaining would be returned to the
applicant.
25.6.4 Performance Bond for Razing of Building: The Zoning Administrator may require a bond prior to the
razing or demolition of principal structures and accessory structures having more than 144 sq. ft. of floor
area. The bond shall be determined according to a guideline of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
1,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof of floor area of the structure to be razed. A bond shall be conditioned on the
applicant completing the razing within such reasonable period as shall be prescribed in the permit and
complying with such regulations as to health and safety as the Zoning Administrator, Fire Chief or the
County Board of Commissioners may from time to time prescribe, including filling of excavations and
proper termination of utility connections.
25.6.5 Record of Performance Guarantees: A record of authorized performance guarantees shall be
maintained by the Zoning Administrator and the status thereof reported to the County Board of
Commissioners at least quarterly.
SECTION 25.7 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
The County may from time to time, on recommendation from the Planning Commission, or on petition, amend,
supplement or change the District boundaries or the regulations, herein, or subsequently established herein,
pursuant to the authority and procedure established in Public Act 110 of 2006 as amended. The notices for all
public hearings before the planning commission or County Board of Commissioners concerning proposed
zoning ordinance amendments (zoning text or map amendments) shall comply with all of the following
applicable provisions:
A. For a proposed amendment to the text of the zoning ordinance, the notice shall comply with all of
the following:
1. The content of the notice shall include all of the following information
a.

A description of the nature of the proposed zoning ordinance amendment.

b.

The time, date, and place the proposed zoning ordinance will be considered.

c.

The places and times at which the proposed zoning ordinance amendment may be examined.

d.

The address where and the deadline when written comments will be received concerning the
proposed zoning ordinance amendment.

2. The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the County not less than
fifteen (15) days before the scheduled public hearing.
3. The notice shall be given by first-class mail to each electric, gas, and pipeline public utility Company,
each telecommunication service provider, each railroad operating within the district or zone affected,
and the airport manager of each airport, that registers its name and mailing address with the County
Clerk for the purpose of receiving the notice of public hearing.
B. For a proposed zoning ordinance amendment rezoning an individual property or ten (10) or fewer
adjacent properties, the notice shall comply with all of the following:
1. The content of the notice shall include all of the following information:
a.
b.

A description of the nature of the proposed zoning ordinance amendment.

A description of the property or properties proposed for rezoning. The notice shall include a
listing of all existing street addresses within the property or properties. Street addresses,
however, do not need to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist within the
property or properties. If there are no street addresses, other means of identification may be used,
such as using tax parcel identification numbers or including a map showing the location of the
property or properties.
XXV-7
Table of Contents
Otsego County Zoning Ordinance