19.10.1.5 Internal re-arrangement of a parking lot which does not affect the number of parking spaces or
alter access locations or design.
19.10.1.6 Changes related to items 19.10.1.1 through 19.10.1.5 above, required by Otsego County, or
other state or federal regulatory agencies in order to conform with other laws or regulations; provided
the extent of such changes does not alter the basic and character of the special land use, nor any
specified conditions imposed as part of the original approval.
19.10.1.7 All amendments to a special land use permit approved by the zoning administrator shall be in
writing. After approval by the zoning administrator, the Applicant shall prepare a revised site plan
showing the approved amendment. The revised site plan shall contain a list of all approved
amendments and a place for the zoning administrator to sign and date all approved amendments.
19.10.2 An amendment to an approved special use permit that cannot be processed by the zoning
administrator under Section 19.10 above shall be processed in the same manner as the original special use
permit application.
SECTION 19.11 EXPIRATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT
19.11.1 An approved special use permit shall expire one (1) year following approval by the Planning
Commission, unless substantial construction has begun pursuant to the permit prior to the expiration, or
the property owner applies to the Planning Commission for an extension prior to the expiration of the
special use permit. The Planning Commission may grant one (1) extension of an approved special use
permit for an additional one (1) year period if it finds:
19.11.1.1 The property owner presents reasonable evidence that the development has encountered
unforeseen difficulties beyond the control of the property owner; and
19.11.1.2 The requirements and standards for special use permit approval that are reasonably related to
the development have not changed.
19.11.2 If the special use permit expires pursuant to subsection above, no work pursuant to the special use
permit may be undertaken until a new special use permit is obtained from the Planning Commission
following the procedures for the new special use permit.
SECTION 19.12 REAPPLICATION
No application for a special use permit which has been denied, wholly or in part, by the Planning
Commission shall be re-submitted for a period of one (1) year from the date of such denial, except on
grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions found by the Planning Commission to be valid or if
the county attorney by a written opinion states that in the attorney’s professional opinion the decision made
by the Planning Commission or the procedure used in the matter was clearly erroneous. A reapplication
shall be processed in the same manner as the original application.
SECTION 19.13 JURISDICTION OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction over decisions of the Planning Commission in
regard to matters concerning the granting of special use permits.

XIX-4
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance