SECTION 21.48 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Added New 4.13.2021

Otsego County allows for the effective and efficient use of solar energy systems. It is the intent of the County
to permit these systems by regulating their siting, design, and installation to protect public health, safety, and
welfare, and to ensure their compatibility with adjacent land uses. Solar energy systems shall comply with the
provisions of this section and are only permitted as authorized by this section. [Ref: State of Michigan
Battery Storage Regulations]
21.48.1 Solar Energy Systems Classification
Solar energy systems shall be classified as follows:
• Small-Scale Solar Energy System: An Active Solar Energy System that occupies 1,750 square feet of
grid surface area or less (equivalent to a rated nameplate capacity of about 10 kW DC or less).
• Medium-Scale Solar Energy System: An Active Solar Energy System that occupies more than 1,750
but less than 40,000 square feet of grid surface area (equivalent to a rated nameplate capacity of about 10 250 kW DC).
• Large-Scale Solar Energy System: An Active Solar Energy System that occupies more than 40,000
square feet of grid surface area (equivalent to a rated nameplate capacity of about 250kW DC or greater).
Solar energy systems shall not be included in the maximum lot coverage calculation as detailed in Article 17.
All Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems located in a R1, R2, R3, RR, FR, or AR Zoning District must meet
a thirty foot (30’) setback from any residential structure as well as all other setback requirements detailed in
Article 17.
21.48.2 Small Scale Roof or Ground Mounted Solar Systems:
The requirements for Small-Scale Roof or Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall be as follows:
21.48.2.1 Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all small-scale roof-mounted systems, the applicant
shall provide:
a. The shortest distance between the solar collector, associated components and all edges of the roof
b. The distance between the solar collector, associated components and any other existing rooftop features
such as chimneys, spires, access points, etc.
c. The height of the solar collector and all associated components both from finished grade and where
applicable, from the finished surface of the roof. [Ref Article 23]
21.48.2.2 Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all small ground-mounted systems,
the applicant shall provide:
a. The distance between the proposed solar collector, associated components and all property lines and
existing on-site buildings and structures.
b. The tallest finished height of the solar collector and associated components.
c. Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, grading, vegetation clearing and planting, exterior lighting,
screening vegetation or structures. [Ref Article 23]
21.48.2.3 System Components – The Site Plan must include documentation of the major system
components to be used, for example the panels, mounting system, and inverter.
21.48.2.4 Installer Details – The Site Plan must include the name, address, and contact information for
proposed system installer.
21.48.2.5 Utility Notification - No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall be installed until evidence has
been given to the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator that the owner has submitted
XXI-60
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance