significant portion of which includes matter or actions depicting, describing, or presenting "specified sexual
activities: or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult entertainment uses shall include:
Adult book or video establishment: An establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock
in trade books, magazines or other publications, video recordings and films which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas," or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale, rent or
display of such material.
Adult cabaret: A nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or
bottomless dancers, "go-go" dancers, exotic dancers, or similar entertainers, where a significant portion of
such performances show, depict, or describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult motel: A motel wherein matter, actions or other displays are presented which contain a significant
portion depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult motion picture arcade: Any place where the public is invited or permitted wherein coin - or
slug/token-operated or electronically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors,
or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images and where a significant portion of images
so displayed depict, describe or relate to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult motion picture arcade: Any place where the public is invited or permitted wherein coin - or
slug/token-operated or electronically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors,
or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images and where a significant portion of images
so displayed depict, describe or relate to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult motion picture theater: An enclosed building or open-air site with any size seating capacity used for
presenting motion pictures distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or" specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
Adult sexual encounter center: Any business, agency, or person who, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, provides a place where three (3) or more persons, not all members of the same family, may
congregate, assemble, or associate for the purpose of engaging in "specified sexual activities" or conduct
involving "specified anatomical areas."
Adult entertainment use is further defined by these terms:
Specified anatomical areas: Less than completely covered human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, and the
areola or nipple of female breasts - Also, human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered
Specified sexual activities: Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal, acts of human
masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, and fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breast.
AGRICULTURE OR AGRICULTURAL USE: Cultivating or using land for the production of crops for
the use of animals or humans including, farming, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture,
and animal and poultry husbandry. An agricultural building does not include a building used for retail trade.
ALTERATIONS: Any change, addition, or modification in construction or type of occupancy, or in the
structural members of a building, such as walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated
act of which may be referred to herein as "altered" or "reconstructed".
AMBIENT RESIDUAL SOUND LEVEL: That measured value which represents the summation of the
sound from all of the discrete sources affecting a given site at a given time. Neighborhood residual sounds
are differentiated from extraneous sounds by the fact that the former are a more steady state, although they
may not be continuous.

II-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance