15.3.17 Enclosed Buildings: Within the Main Street MUZ, all activities, unless specifically provided for
herein, shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
15.3.18 Parking Requirements: Parking in this district, except for hotels and bed and breakfast inns with
more than four (4) rental rooms, is not subject to the parking requirements elsewhere in this ordinance
for land uses that comply with the requirements of this district. On-street parking is encouraged in this
district. Off-street parking may be provided to the rear of a building or in publicly owned designated
lots.
MUZ TOWN CENTER MULTIPLE USE ZONING
Amended 4.8.2025

INTENT
Town Center Multiple Use Zoning (MUZ) is established for the purpose of accommodating moderately
heavy residential density with some retail and service business. Collectively the uses permitted in this
district are intended to provide a convenient and attractive living community. It is designed and intended to
be walkable, thus enhancing the Main Street MUZ and providing a transition from the Main Street MUZ to
other land uses. It is further intended to be residential in appearance and character with primarily off-street
parking. Streets are intended to have sidewalks.
SECTION 15.4 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one (1) or more of the
following specified uses:
15.4.1 Single-family and duplex dwellings: These shall be built to the Build-to-Lines in a traditional
residential style.
15.4.2 Apartment buildings: Apartment buildings may contain up to eight (8) units per building.
15.4.3 Churches: Churches, temples and similar places of worship, limited to a footprint of 3,500 sq. ft.
15.4.4 Utilities: All utilities and service structures when their operating requirements necessitate locating
the facilities within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity (storage yards excluded), shall be
located underground except where above ground equipment such as transformers, control panels, service
connections and meters are required. All above ground equipment shall be located at the rear of the
building. [Permit criteria includes Articles 21.10, 21.18.5 and 21.18.6 screening and fence]
15.4.5 Laundromats (self-service or coin operated) up to a footprint of 1,000 sq. ft.
15.4.6 Parks
15.4.7 Community centers or similar places of assembly when conducted completely with enclosed
buildings with a footprint of up to 7,000 sq. ft.
15.4.8 Senior housing, licensed residential care facilities with a footprint of up to 7,000 sq. ft.
15.4.9 The following in-home uses provided no more than twenty-five (25%) of the floor area is used for
such a purpose:
15.4.9.1 Offices and home occupations when operated within the confines of a single-family dwelling as
an accessory to living quarters [Permit criteria for these uses include Article 4 R1 Residential District]
15.4.10 Roof-Mounted (any-scale) and Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems permitted as an
accessory use to an allowed Principal Use [Permit criteria includes Article 21.48]
SECTION 15.5 PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The following uses may be permitted subject to the conditions herein imposed for each use, the review
standards of Article 4.2 and only after the review and approval of the site plan by the Otsego County
Planning Commission. See Article 21 for applicable SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN USES,
if any and Article 23 for SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
XV-6
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance