ARTICLE 2 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE AND DEFINITIONS
Amended 4.13.2021
Amended 12.20.2022
Amended 8.27.2024

SECTION 2.1 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE
The following rules of construction apply to the text of this Ordinance:
2.1.1 The particular shall control the general.
2.1.2 In case of a difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Ordinance and any caption
or illustration, the text shall control.
2.1.3 Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
2.1.4 A "building" or "structure" includes any part thereof.
2.1.5 The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", or
"occupied for".
2.1.6 The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or
any other similar entity.
2.1.7 Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
2.1.8 The term "including" means "including but not limited to." It is a term which introduces examples but
does not limit the provision to only those examples.
2.1.9 Terms referring to the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR) shall be understood to refer
to the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) where appropriate.
2.1.10 Reference to Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control as Part 91 of PA 451 shall be understood to
mean MCLA Sections 324.9101 through 324.9123 of the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act of 1994.
SECTION 2.2 DEFINITIONS
A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level
meter using the A-weighted network as specified in the American National Standards Institute Standard
S1.4-1983, or its successor provision. The sound pressure level so read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is a smaller dwelling on
the same lot as, or attached to, a single-family dwelling. For example, an ADU could be a basement
apartment or a stand-alone dwelling. An ADU can be used to house a family member or for additional
income through rent. [See Article 17]
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building, or
main use, and which is located on the same lot. Total square footage of accessory structures which includes
all levels and any attic area will be used to determine compliance with the lot coverage requirement in
Article 17.
ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental to the principal use of a building or property as defined or limited
by the provisions of this Ordinance.
ACTIVITY AREA: The area utilized by the Event Facility for all activities excluding the parking
ACTIVITY BUFFER AREA: Areas of activity utilized by the Event Facility including all structures,
parking area (per Planning Commission determination), and open space encompassed by buffers
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USE: Any use of land, whether vacant or combined with structures or
vehicles thereon by which said property is devoted to displaying or exhibiting material for entertainment, a
II-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance