21.14.4.3 All lots shall be provided with a satisfactory means of access to a public road. Property lines shall
be laid out to promote efficient development with shared access to roads available for future
development.
21.14.4.4 No lot splits shall be granted which are contrary to, or in violation of, the State of Michigan P.A.
288 of 1967, as amended, the Land Division Act.
21.14.4.5 No lot split shall be approved if the division would reduce any required yard space or off-street
parking space below the minimums required by the Zoning Ordinance or if the division would
effectively allow the avoidance of the requirements of this Ordinance.
21.14.5 Review of Lot Splits: The lot split application shall be reviewed by the local assessor.
21.14.6 Approval of Lot Splits: When all Ordinance requirements have been met, a certificate of Lot Split
Approval shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
SECTION 21.15 [FOR FUTURE USE]
SECTION 21.16 [FOR FUTURE USE]
SECTION 21.17 [FOR FUTURE USE]
SECTION 21.18 LANDSCAPING
Amended 5.12.2020

21.18.1 Purpose
The purpose of this section is: to protect and enhance property values, economic welfare and community
attractiveness; to provide beneficial climatic impacts by cleaning the air and providing shade; to protect health,
safety and welfare by reducing air and water borne pollutants, flooding and noise; to mitigate adverse effects
of sighting different uses near one another through buffering; to facilitate preservation of existing valuable
trees and other vegetative cover; to provide wildlife habitat and environmental standards within developed
areas; to protect privacy.
21.18.2 General Performance Standards
This, Section 21.18 Landscaping, requirements shall not apply to single family residences located on
individual lots. The Section shall apply to residential plats and site condominiums.
All areas not covered by buildings, parking or other structures shall be treated with landscape materials
including street trees, shrubs and groundcovers consistent with these provisions. The selected combination of
plant materials shall be a harmonious combination of deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs, vines and/or
ground covers so arranged to present an aesthetically pleasing whole.
21.18.2.1 Landscape Materials:
All landscape materials planted pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be healthy and compatible
with the local climate, site soil characteristics, drainage, and available water supply.
Trees and shrubs should be at least, at the time of planting, the sizes as outlined in this section and shall be
consistent with the current American Standard for Nursery Stock as set forth from time to time by the
American Association of Nurserymen.
Deciduous trees shall be not less than one and one-half inches (1 ½”) in diameter for single family
residential uses and two and one-half inches (2 ½”) in diameter for other uses.
Coniferous trees should be at least six feet (6’) in height. Shrubs shall be of a size generally known in the
nursery industry as requiring at least a five (5) gallon container.
All planting beds constructed pursuant to Sections 21.18.2, 21.18.5 and 21.18.6 shall be mulched with
mulch cover at least three inches(3”) deep to retain moisture around roots.
Trees shall be planted on the project sites so as to allow for their desired mature growth.
XXI-12
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance