21.47.6.2 Standards for Anemometer Towers
The Planning Commission shall approve, or approve with conditions, an application for an anemometer
tower only upon a finding that the proposed anemometer tower complies with all of the following applicable
standards, and the approval standards as found in Article 19 of the Zoning Ordinance.
a. Zoning District: Permitted Subject to Special Conditions in AR & FR.
b. The minimum site area for an anemometer tower shall be as necessary to meet the required setbacks and
any other standards of this section.
c. All requirements of Article 19 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance shall be met.
d. The maximum height of an anemometer tower shall be three hundred feet (300’).
e. An anemometer tower shall meet a setback from any adjoining lot line and any adjoining public or
private road or overhead utility line a distance equal to the one and one-half (1½) times the height of the
anemometer tower as measured to the highest point. The setback shall be measured from the outermost
point on the base of the anemometer tower, not the guy or support wires.
f. The anemometer tower shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness. Excessively bright or neon colors are not acceptable. The Planning
Commission, however, may approve an alternate color if the anemometer tower is located within an
avian migratory route or if an alternate color would otherwise benefit the neighborhood.
g. The anemometer tower shall not be artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the FAA. Where the
FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations, the
fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility from
the ground, and no strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the FAA.
h. The anemometer tower shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that access is limited, to the
extent possible, to authorize personnel only.
i. The anemometer tower shall be constructed and operated so that it does not interfere with television,
radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception in neighboring areas. If degradation of television,
radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception occurs as the result of the anemometer tower, the
developer shall pay to correct the television, radio, and cellular telephone or microwave reception.
j. An anemometer tower may be a lattice-style tower and may utilize guy wires, providing access
limitations are maintained to prevent climbing by unauthorized persons.
k. The anemometer tower shall have posted on the site in a visible, easily accessible location two (2) signs
no more than 4 sq. ft. in area displaying an address and telephone number for emergency calls. The
emergency telephone number shall allow a caller to contact a responsible individual to address
emergencies at any time during or after regular business hours and on weekends or holidays. One (1)
sign shall be located at the service drive entrance to the anemometer tower at the minimum setback
distance.
l. The anemometer tower shall have no advertising painted on or attached to the tower or any other
structure of the anemometer.
m. Structural integrity of all components not under the jurisdiction of the Michigan Building Code shall be
certified by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Michigan. Certification shall include;
verification that ultimate strength exceeds that needed to withstand all factored loads and load
combinations specified in SIE/ASCE 7-02 “Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures”.
First Order Reliability Analysis shall demonstrate a reliability coefficient (Beta) of not less than 3.54 for
any failure mode that could result in any portion of the WTG falling to the ground. In lieu of First Order
Reliability Analysis, adequate structural reliability may be demonstrated via analysis methods specified
in the Michigan Building Code.
XXI-58
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance