21.3.4 A building with an impervious floor must be designed to contain spills. All crushing, draining of fluids
and similar activities shall take place only on the impervious floor.
21.3.5 Operator must present in writing a plan which specifies procedures for transporting, handling and
disposal of vehicles, their fluids and parts, including tires. The plan may be modified by the Planning
Commission. Upon approval of a special use permit, this plan, along with documentation, shall be
maintained on site and accessible during business hours for inspection by the Zoning Administrator;
documentation shall include proper licensing by the Michigan Department of State. Procedures may later
be modified under provisions of Article 23.11.
SECTION 21.4 CEMETERY
21.4.1 Requires a minimum site size of ten (10) acres.
21.4.2 Shall comply with Michigan Department of Public Health requirements and regulations.
21.4.3 Shall be in rectangular shape with a maximum of one to four widths to depth (1:4) ratio.
SECTION 21.5 CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL OPTION
Otsego County recognizes the potential benefit of encouraging the clustering of residential dwelling units, to
allow for the preservation of open space and environmental amenities. Therefore, the Otsego County Planning
Commission will consider the approval of residential cluster developments, providing that such developments
incorporate the following design standards.
21.5.1 The cluster option is available for residential development only, where project size is at least ten (10)
acres, and the total number of residential units to be constructed does not exceed forty (40) units. All
projects with a cluster approach shall conform under the PUD provisions of Article 24.3.
21.5.2 The land in question is zoned for R1, R2, R3, RR, FR or AR.
21.5.3 Clustered residential structures are set back a minimum of seventy feet (70’) from the development
parcel perimeter.
21.5.4 A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the land area is maintained as permanent, contiguous open space.
The open space portion shall be reserved in perpetuity by an enforceable legal instrument. This instrument
shall be submitted in writing for Planning Commission review, along with other required site plan materials.
The legal instrument shall also provide for perpetual maintenance of the open space property, and adequate
financing for such maintenance. The instrument shall be recorded prior to property sale.
21.5.5 The Planning Commission may waive enforcement of the respective zoning district lot area, yard
setbacks, lot width and lot coverage requirements, if such waiver is determined appropriate to promote and
establish clustered residential developments. However, residential unit density in a cluster residential
development shall not exceed one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the gross residential unit density allowed
by the respective zoning district regulations. Land areas defined by state or federal law as regulated
wetlands or with a slope of twenty percent (20%) or more, shall not be considered buildable area, and shall
not be part of the density or open space calculation.
21.5.6 Residential units constructed under the residential cluster option may be attached or detached, as
approved by the Planning Commission. Further, real estate interests may be transferred by means of lot
splits, platting or condominium agreement, or a combination thereof.
21.5.7 A residential cluster option shall be considered a Permitted Use Subject to Special Conditions, and shall
be reviewed according to the requirements of Article 19 of this Ordinance. Further, a residential cluster
option development shall be subject to the site plan submittal and review requirements of Article 23.
21.5.8 A cluster residential development is subject to all applicable state and county health codes pertaining to
drinking water supply and sewage disposal. Proof of Health Department consent to water supply and
sewage management for the cluster development shall be presented to the Planning Commission prior to
and as a condition of special condition use and site plan approval.
XXI-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance