ARTICLE 26 BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION 26.1 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP
A Zoning Board of Appeals, first established by the Zoning Ordinance adopted August 8, 1965, is hereby
retained in accordance with Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, known as the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall perform its duties and exercise its powers in such a way that the objectives
of this Ordinance shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of the following seven (7) regular members and not more than two
(2) alternate members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners:
26.1.1 One (1) of the regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be a member of the Planning
Commission but shall not serve as chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals. [Sec. 3601 (4)]
26.1.2 One (1) regular or alternate member of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be a member of the Board of
County Commissioners but shall not serve as chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals. An employee or
contractor of the Board of County Commissioners may not serve as a member of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. [Sec. 3601 (6)]
26.1.3 The remaining regular members, and any alternate members, shall be selected from the electors residing
within Otsego County but outside the City of Gaylord or the Village of Vanderbilt. The members selected
shall be representative of the population distribution and of the various interests present in Otsego County.
[Sec. 3601 (5)]
26.1.4 An alternate member may be called as specified to serve as a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals in
the absence of a regular member if the regular member will be unable to attend one (1) or more meetings.
An alternate member may also be called to serve as a member for the purpose of reaching a decision on a
case in which the member has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest. The alternate member appointed
shall serve in the case until a final decision is made and shall have the same voting rights as a regular
member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. [Sec. 3601 (7)]
26.1.5 A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be paid a reasonable per diem and reimbursed for
expenses actually incurred in the discharge of his or her duties. [Sec. 3601 (8)]
26.1.6 A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be removed by the Board of County Commissioners for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and after public hearing. A
member shall disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of interest.
Failure of a member to disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of
interest constitutes malfeasance in office. [Sec. 3601 (9)]
26.1.7 The terms of office for members appointed to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be for staggered three
(3) years, except for members serving because of their membership on the County Planning Commission or
Board of County Commissioners, whose terms shall be limited to the time they are members of those bodies.
A successor shall be appointed not more than one (1) month after the term of the preceding member has
expired. [Sec. 3601 (10)]
26.1.8 Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled for the remainder of the term in the same manner as the
original appointment. [Sec. 3601 (11)]
SECTION 26.2 JURISDICTION
26.2.1 The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have all the powers and duties granted by State law and this
Ordinance, including the following specific powers:
26.2.1.1 Interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance Text and Map: To hear and decide requests for
interpretation of the zoning map and zoning text, as well as for decisions on other special questions on
which this Ordinance specifically authorizes the Zoning Board of Appeals to pass. [Sec. 3603 (1)]
XXV1-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance