24.1.6.4 Can be accommodated in terms of utility service requirements and fire protection systems;
24.1.6.5 This exemption shall not allow The Planning Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals to
allow a:
24.1.6.5.1 WTG height greater than allowed in the Zoning District PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED
or PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS and/or Section 21.47 or
24.1.6.5.2 Wireless Telecommunication Towers and Facilities greater than the height allowed in the
Zoning District PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED or PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO
SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
24.1.7 Floor area: The minimum floor area requirements shall be in accordance with the minimum required
for one (1) family dwelling and/or multiple family dwellings as prescribed in the applicable zoning
district (e.g. R1, R2).
24.1.8 Site location: Any planned unit development shall be located only where it can meet the service
requirements of the district in which it is located, including existing or programmed essential public
facilities and services such as access streets, public water, sanitary sewer and storm drainage facilities,
refuse disposal and police and fire protection as is applicable.
24.1.9 Parking, loading, traffic and access: Planned unit development projects shall be subject to the
regulations for parking, loading, traffic and access of this Zoning Ordinance.
24.1.10 Special conditions: The Planning Commission may attach special conditions to the approval of the
final site plan to insure conformance with the intent of this Ordinance and the Otsego County
Comprehensive Plan.
SECTION 24.2 PROCEDURE
24.2.1 General: A planned unit development project may be permitted only by the issuance of a special use
permit. An approved final site plan shall be a requirement for the issuance of a special use permit for a
planned unit development. A final site plan for a planned unit development shall conform to all standards
of Article 19.3.
24.2.2 Preliminary site plan: A preliminary site plan of the planned unit development project shall be
submitted which contains all the information required by Article 19.3.2. It is recommended that this
submission be preceded by pre-application conferences to determine whether the developer's intent is
consistent with all requirements of this Ordinance. Additional supporting material shall be submitted by
the developer and shall include:
24.2.2.1 Explanation of the character of the planned unit development and the manner in which it has
been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of these regulations - This must include an
explanation of how development of the property via the planned unit development regulations will
benefit the community over and above any benefits the community would receive by development of
the same property under the existing regulations of the District in which it is located.
24.2.2.2 Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within the project
24.2.2.3 Development schedule indicating: Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each stage - Overall design
of each stage shall be shown on the plan and through supporting graphic material; approximate dates
for beginning and completion of each stage shall be shown on the plan.
24.2.2.4 Agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the use, maintenance and continued
protection of the planned unit development and any of its common open space
24.2.3 Site plan approval: No approval shall be granted for a preliminary or final planned unit
development unless all the requirements of Article 19.3 and 23.6 are met.

XXIV-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance