BUILD-TO-LINE: The line of vertical plane formed by the planned building façade that is parallel to the
road right-of-way and extends to and coincides with the plane of the front façade of existing or planned
buildings along the same right-of-way.
CARE FACILITY, COMMERCIAL DAY: A facility receiving more than twelve (12) minor children or
adults for care for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours in a day, for more than two (2) weeks in any
calendar year. Child care and supervision provided as an accessory use, while parents are engaged or
involved in the principal use of the property, such as a nursery operated during church services or public
meeting, or by a fitness center or similar operation, shall not be considered Commercial Day Care.
CARE FACILITY, CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME: A facility with sleeping
accommodations where persons are housed twenty-four (24) hours a day and furnished with meals, nursing
and medical care.
CARE FACILITY, FAMILY: A facility required to be licensed by the state, which provides training,
care, supervision, treatment and/or rehabilitation to the aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes, or those
suffering the effects of drugs or alcohol, for more than one (1) but less than seven (7) adults. Care for
persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption to a member of the family occupying the facility is excluded
from this definition. This does not include commercial day care facilities, family child care homes, group
child care homes, foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or prisons.
CARE FACILITY, GROUP: A facility required to be licensed by the state, which provides training, care,
supervision, treatment and/or rehabilitation to the aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes, or those
suffering the effects of drugs or alcohol, for at least seven (7) but not more than twelve (12) adults. Care for
persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption to a member of the family occupying the facility are
excluded from this definition. This does not include commercial day care facilities, family child care
homes, group child care homes, foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or prisons.
CHILD CARE HOME, FAMILY: A private home in which one (1) but fewer than seven (7) minor
children are received for care and supervision for compensation for periods of less than twenty-four (24)
hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult member of the
household by blood, marriage, or adoption. Family child care home includes a home in which care is given
to an unrelated minor child for more than four (4) weeks during a calendar year. A family child care home
does not include an individual providing babysitting service for another individual. This definition is
intended to be pursuant to the Child Care Organizations Act, MCL 722.111
CHILD CARE HOME, GROUP: A private home in which more than six (6) but not more than twelve
(12) minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours a day
unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult member of the household by
blood, marriage, or adoption. This definition is intended to be pursuant to the Child Care Organizations
Act, MCL 722.111
CLIMBING BARRIER: Material attached to the lowest eight feet (8’) of a lattice tower for the
prevention of using structural cross members as a ladder; a safety feature to discourage climbing by
unauthorized individuals
CLUB: An organization of persons for the promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics, or the
like.
CO-LOCATION: The location of two (2) or more communication providers of wireless communication
facilities on a common structure, tower or building, with the view toward reducing the overall number of
structures required to support wireless communication antennas with the County.
COMMERCIAL AREA: Property zoned for uses other than residential, regardless of whether the
property has a commercial use.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on public
highways to transport passengers or property, if the vehicle meets one or more of the following:

II-4
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance