21.38.1.1.3 Districts: B1, B2, B3, HX, I
Number Allowed: Two (2) with the following four (4) regulations:
One (1) sign shall be affixed to or be within two feet (2’) of and be parallel with the
wall of the main building.
Maximum Size: Signs mounted on and parallel with the wall of the main building shall not exceed a
total surface area of fifteen percent (15%) of the mounting wall. If a premise
contains walls facing more than one property line or encompasses property frontage
bounded by more than one street or other property usages, the sign area(s) for each
building wall or property frontage will be computed separately for each building wall
or property line facing a different frontage. The sign area(s) thus calculated shall be
permitted to then be applied to permitted signs placed on each separate wall or
property line frontage.
Regulation 2:
One (1) Sign may be a freestanding sign.
Maximum Height: Twelve feet (12’)
Maximum Size: 56 sq. ft. and length shall not be longer than three (3) times its width.
Regulation 3:
One (1) Sign may be a pylon sign.
Maximum Height: Thirty-five feet (35’)
Maximum Size: Sign Specifications must be prepared by a design professional and must comply with
any Airport Zoning Ordinance and the Tall Structures Act. Pylon Signs approved
and installed before the date of this ordinance change shall be allowed provided they
exhibit structural integrity, are safe and well maintained.
Regulation 4:
All businesses may display window signs in ground level windows in addition to any
wall signs. Window signs shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the
total window area. Where multiple windows are installed, signage may not be
aggregated to cover any window one hundred percent (100%) restricting all visibility
from the interior and exterior. Signage may cover no more than fifty percent (50%)
of the window on the horizontal and vertical dimension. Total coverage for multiple
window panels will not change.
21.38.1.1.4
Regulation 1:

Signs for shopping centers or other commercial developments with two (2) or more units developed as
offices, office service units, research facilities, manufacturing facilities, retail spaces with multiple
stores, commercial PUD’s, large retail stores with a building area over 100,000 sq. ft. or other
commercial developments requiring Special Use Approval and which have a common off street parking
and a common entrance or entrances may install accessory signs in accordance with the following six (6)
regulations:
Regulation 1: Signs which direct traffic movement within a property and which do not exceed 4 sq. ft.
in area for each sign are permitted.
Regulation 2: One (1) free-standing identification sign for each street that the development faces.
a. The freestanding sign shall state only the name of the shopping center or multiple use
development and tenants located therein.
b. No freestanding sign face shall exceed an area of 100 sq. ft.
c. Freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of thirty feet (30’) measured from the average grade
at the base of the sign to the top of the horizontal sign frame supporting the sign face.
d. Tenants of the shopping center or the owner of outlets included with the development plan or
PUD shall not be permitted individual freestanding signs, except gas stations as noted below:
Regulation 3: Businesses within the development or PUD shall be permitted exterior wall signs; the
total area of the exterior wall signs shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area of
XXI-38
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance