Commission, however, may approve an alternate color if the WTG – Large is located within an avian
migratory route or if an alternate color would otherwise benefit the neighborhood.
o. The WTG – Large shall not be artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the FAA. Where the
FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations, the
fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility from
the ground, and no strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the FAA.
p. The WTG – Large shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that access is limited, to the
extent possible, to authorized personnel only.
q. The WTG – Large shall be constructed and operated so that it does not interfere with television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception in neighboring areas. If degradation of television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception occurs as the result of the WTG – Large, the developer shall
pay to correct the television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception.
r. The WTG – Large shall be designed and sited in such a manner to minimize shadow flicker on a
roadway. In addition, the WTG – Large shall be designed and sited in a manner to prevent shadow
flicker on any existing structures located off the property on which the WTG – Large is constructed. It
shall be the responsibility of the WTG – Large operator to modify operations to also prevent shadow
flicker on dwellings constructed and/or occupied after installation of the WTG – Large. If necessary to
prevent shadow flicker from crossing occupied structures the WTG – Large may be programmed to stop
rotating during times the WTG – Large shadow crosses these structures. The WTG – Large operator
may obtain a written easement or other written agreement which specifically allows shadow flicker to
cross an occupied structure.
s. The potential ice throw or ice shedding for the proposed WTG – Large shall not cross the property lines
of the site in question nor impinge on any public Right-of-Way or overhead utility line. Compliance
shall be demonstrated in the permit application by the specific analysis method but such model shall not
alleviate the applicant of the need to comply with this subsection under all atmospheric conditions, for
the life of the structure.
t. Structural integrity of all components not under the jurisdiction of the Michigan Building Code shall be
certified by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Michigan. Certification shall include;
verification that ultimate strength exceeds that needed to withstand all factored loads and load
combinations specified in SIE/ASCE 7-02 “Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other
Structures”. First Order Reliability Analysis shall demonstrate a reliability coefficient (Beta) of not less
than 3.54 for any failure mode that could result in any portion of the WTG falling to the ground. In lieu
of First Order Reliability Analysis, adequate structural reliability may be demonstrated via analysis
methods specified in the Michigan Building Code.
21.47.5.3 Conditions for WTG – LARGE
The Planning Commission may attach reasonable conditions to the approval of a WTG – Large. These
conditions may include those necessary to ensure that public services and facilities affected by the WTG –
Large will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the WTG – Large to
protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to insure compatibility with
adjacent uses of land, and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner. Any
conditions imposed, however, shall meet all of the following requirements:
a. Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety, and welfare and the social and economic
well-being of those who will use the WTG – Large under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed WTG – Large and the community as a whole.
b. Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes which are affected by the proposed
WTG – Large.

XXI-55
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance