7. Enhance the ability of providers of telecommunication services to provide such services to the county
quickly, effectively, and efficiently;
8. Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
9. Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through engineering and careful
sighting of tower structures. In furtherance of these goals, due consideration shall be given to the Otsego
County master plan, zoning map, existing land uses, and environmentally sensitive areas in approving
sites for the location of towers and antennas.
Wireless and cellular phone service are specially determined to not be essential services, nor to be public
utilities as such terms are used in this Ordinance.
It is not the intent to create "antennae farms" with a number of monopoles and antennae in a small area. Also,
it is not the intent to regulate ham radio antennae under this section, or to regulate towers installed at single
family dwellings for personal television reception.
21.46.1 Definitions
As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1. Antenna means any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower, building structure and
used in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other communication
signals.
2. Height means, when referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from the finished
grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base pad and any
antenna.
3. Tower means any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one
or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, including self-supporting
(lattice) towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers (including telephone poles). The term includes radio
and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone
towers, alternative tower structures, and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
4. Co-location shall mean the location by two (2) or more communication providers of wireless
communication facilities on a common structure, tower or building, with the view toward reducing the
overall number of structures required to support wireless communication antennas within the County.
21.46.2 Wireless Communications Towers of One Hundred Seventy-Nine Feet (179’) or LESS and
Related Facilities:
Construction of Wireless Telecommunication Antenna Towers of one hundred seventy-nine feet (179’) or less
and Equipment Shelter Buildings are allowed in Otsego County subject to the following provisions:
21.46.2.1 Prior to approval of any new tower to be located within one (1) mile of an existing tower or other
structure of equal or greater height than the proposed tower, applicant shall contact owner(s) of all said
towers or structures and request permission to locate or co-locate in lieu of construction of a new tower.
No new tower request shall be granted until proof of contact(s) has been provided to the zoning
administrator.
21.46.2.1.1 As an alternative to contacting owners of all towers or structures, as described in the above
paragraph, location or co-location on existing towers or structures shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator under applicable provisions, including 21.46.2.7.1.
An accessory equipment shelter building shall meet all normal requirements of accessory buildings. Any
location or co-location shall not result in a height of more than twice the height of the existing structure.
XXI-44
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance