may table a site plan, pending further information or addition, reasonably needed to complete a site plan or
comply with requirements of this Ordinance.
SECTION 21.39 SLAUGHTER HOUSE, MEAT OR POULTRY PACKING OR PROCESSING
Slaughtering shall be done inside the building only.
SECTION 21.40 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL, STORM WATER
MANAGEMENT
No zoning permit shall be issued until any required Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control permits and/or
Storm Water Management permits have been obtained.
SECTION 21.41 SPEAKERS AND SOUND DEVICES, OUTDOOR
Uses requiring outdoor speakers, outdoor public address systems or similar sound devices shall not be
permitted without the written consent of the Planning Commission who shall determine that no public nuisance
will be established and that no unreasonable adverse impact will fall on an adjacent property. The Planning
Commission may require the installation of various screening and landscaping to minimize the impacts of such
speakers on adjoining properties.
SECTION 21.42 TRASH RECEPTACLES/DUMPSTERS
21.42.1 Residential Trash Receptacles shall be placed at curbside no earlier than twenty-four (24) hours from
the scheduled pick-up day. Any trash receptacle placed at curb side shall be removed from curb side no
later than twenty-four (24) hours after the scheduled pick-up day.
21.42.2 Commercial Trash Receptacles / Dumpsters may be placed upon a parcel of land in such a manner to
facilitate loading and unloading. They may be placed no closer than ten feet (10’) to any adjoining
property. All Trash Receptacles shall be properly maintained with working lids and the lids shall be
maintained in a closed position.
21.42.2.1 During the Site Plan Review process the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator
may require Commercial Businesses abutting land zoned Residential (R1, R2, R3, RR) or existing
residential in other zoning districts (HX) to maintain a greater setback than ten feet (10’) but in no
case shall the required setback be greater than twenty-five feet (25’).
21.42.3 Temporary Commercial Construction Dumpsters are exempt from these regulations.
21.42.4 Trash Receptacles / Dumpsters meeting the requirements of Sections 21.42.1, 21.42.2 & 21.42.3 shall
not be considered unsightly areas as covered in Section 21.18.5.
SECTION 21.43 UNDERGROUND UTILITY WIRES
Within the area of a plat or site plan, all distribution lines for electric, communications or similar associated
services shall be placed underground. Those electric and communication facilities placed in dedicated public
ways shall be installed so as not to conflict with other underground utilities. All communication and electric
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the Michigan Public
Service Commission. All underground utility installations which traverse privately-owned property shall be
protected by easements granted by the owner of such property.
The Planning Commission may, by resolution, waive or modify any of the above requirements for
underground line installations with respect to a particular plat or site plan when the strict application of the
above requirements would result in unnecessary hardship. Prior to any such waiver or modification, a public
hearing regarding the proposal shall be held by the Planning Commission.
SECTION 21.44 UNLISTED PROPERTY USE
The County Zoning Board of Appeals shall have power on written request of a property owner in any Zoning
District to classify a use not listed with a comparable permitted use in the District giving due consideration to
the provisions of Article 19 of this Ordinance when declaring whether it is a use permitted by right or by
XXI-42
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance