21.46.2.2 Wireless Telecommunication Antenna Towers and Equipment Shelter Buildings shall not be
placed in any road right-of-way or in any easement for road purposes.
21.46.2.3 Such towers and facilities shall be placed on parcels (whether the land is owned or leased by the
tower owner) that have an area no less than the minimum parcel size for the district, as listed in Article
17. No variances shall be granted to reduce this size limit.
21.46.2.4 All setbacks for the zoning district shall be met and in addition, no tower shall be placed closer
than two hundred percent (200%) of the tower's height from any property line or any residence.
21.46.2.5 A tower proposal of more than thirty-five feet (35’) shall be submitted to the Otsego County
Airport Manager and FAA for review and approval prior to issuance of a zoning permit.
21.46.2.6 The tower itself must be of monopole design. Guyed and self-supporting towers may be
considered by the Planning Commission and require a special use permit. [Section 19.7]
21.46.2.6.1 Maximum height of Personal Wireless guyed and self-supporting towers to be one hundred
fifty feet (150’).
21.46.2.6.2 Eight foot (8’) climbing barriers are required on guyed towers and around each guyed wire.
21.46.2.7 All such tower location proposals shall be submitted with a site plan. [Section 23.2]
21.46.2.7.1 The following conditions are required for approval of an application:
Antennas may or may not be mounted on existing structures. The tower and antenna are painted or
screened as to blend into the background;
The service building shall be constructed of material such as wood, brick, or stucco, and shall be
designed to blend into the natural setting and surrounding buildings. In no case will metal exteriors be
allowed for service buildings;
Unless technically impossible, all connecting wires from towers to accessory buildings shall be
underground;
Unless technically impossible, all electrical and other service wires to the facility shall be underground;
The service building shall be no larger than necessary to house the equipment and shall meet all setback
requirements of this Ordinance.
21.46.2.8 Lighting shall be designed in accordance with Section 21.19 in addition to the following:
Lights shall not be permitted on the tower or antennae unless FAA regulations require them.
Light poles and fixtures shall be located as low as practical; a greater number of low “area” lights are
favored over higher lights. Incandescent lights are favored over sodium or mercury-type street lighting.
21.46.2.9 The tower and its accessory buildings shall be fenced with no less than a six-foot (6’) safety fence
with a locked gate. For towers with guy wires, anchor points must have individual six-foot (6’) fencing
or yellow guy protection “sleeves” for high visibility. The Planning Commission will determine which
of the two (2) will be required based upon the site chosen for the tower. Signage must be installed on the
six-foot (6’) fence with locked gate stating the owner’s name and contact information, including an
emergency telephone number.
21.46.2.10 The application shall include a description of security. Security shall be posted at the time of
receiving a building permit to ensure removal of the facility when it has been abandoned for more than
twelve (12) months or is no longer needed. In this regard, the security shall, at the selection of the
applicant, be in the form of cash or letter of credit to remove the tower in a timely manner as required
under Section 21.46.4 with the further provision that the applicant and owner shall be responsible for the
payment of any costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the county in securing removal. The amount of the
security bond or letter of credit is to be determined by the Planning Commission. [Section 25.6]
XXI-45
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance