ARTICLE 3 ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
SECTION 3.1 DISTRICTS
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the County of Otsego is hereby divided into the following districts:
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
OTHER DISTRICTS
R1 Residential
FR Forestry Recreation
R2 General Residential
AR Agricultural Resource
R3 Residential Estates
MUZ MAIN Multiple Use Zoning Main Street
RR Recreation Residential
MUZ TOWN Multiple Use Zoning Town Center
NON-RESIDENTIAL
B1 Local Business
B2 General Business
B3 Business & Light Manufacturing
I Industrial
HX Highway Interchange
SECTION 3.2 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the County Zoning Map, which
accompanies this Ordinance, and which map with all notations, references, and other information shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this Ordinance as if fully described herein. If there are any questions as to
the interpretation of District Boundaries the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine same. District
Boundaries as interpreted by the Zoning Board of Appeals may be illustrated on Atlas type zoning maps on
file with the Zoning Administrator. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
3.2.1 Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys, shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
3.2.2 Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such
lot lines.
3.2.3 Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall be construed as following
corporate limits.
3.2.4 Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be the midway between the main
tracks. Where an abandoned rail line is developed as a parcel, the more restrictive zoning shall apply to
the entire parcel.
3.2.5 Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to follow such shorelines, and in the
event of change in the shoreline shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries
indicated as approximately following the centerline of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of
water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
3.2.6 Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in Subsections one through five
(1:5) above. Distances not specifically indicated on the official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
3.2.7 Where physical or natural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the
official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not covered by Subsections one through six (1:6) above, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
3.2.8 Insofar as some or all of the various districts may be indicated on the Zoning Map by patterns which,
for the sake of map clarity, do not cover public rights-of-way, it is intended that such district boundaries do
extend to the center of any public right-of-way.
3.2.9 All property identified on the County Zoning Map as state land is zoned FR Forest Recreation.
III-1
Table of Contents
Otsego County Zoning Ordinance