the system. Per Section 25.6, the County may require the submittal of a performance guarantee at the time
of application to cover the estimated cost of removing system should it be abandoned.
21.48.4 Large-Scale Roof or Ground Mounted Solar Systems:
Large-scale roof or ground-mounted solar energy systems shall undergo the Site Plan Review process as
detailed in Article 23. In addition, standards for large-scale roof or ground-mounted solar energy systems are
as follows:
Site Plans for ground and roof-mounted Solar Energy Systems shall contain the following:
21.48.4.1 Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all roof-mounted systems, the applicant shall
provide:
a. The shortest distance between the solar collector, associated components and all edges of the roof.
b. The distance between the solar collector, associated components and any other existing rooftop features
such as chimneys, spires, access points, etc.
c. The height of the solar collector and associated components both from finished grade and, where
applicable, from the finished surface of the roof. [Ref Article 23]
21.48.4.2 Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all ground-mounted systems, the applicant shall
provide:
a. The distance between the outermost proposed solar collector(s), associated components and all property
lines and existing on-site buildings and structures.
b. The tallest finished height of the solar collector(s) and associated components.
c. Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, grading, vegetation clearing and planting, exterior lighting,
screening vegetation or structures. [Ref Article 23]
21.48.4.3 System Components – The Site Plan must include documentation of the major system
components to be used, for example the panels, mounting system, and inverter.
21.48.4.4 Installer Details – The Site Plan must include the name, address, and contact information for
proposed system installer
21.48.4.5 Site Control - The project proponent shall submit documentation of actual or prospective access
and control of the project site sufficient to allow for construction and operation of the proposed solar
energy system.
21.48.4.6 Site Operation & Maintenance Plan - The project proponent shall submit a plan for the site
operation and maintenance of the large-scale ground-mounted solar energy system, which shall include
measures for maintaining safe access to the installation, storm water controls, as well as general
procedures for operational maintenance of the installation.
21.48.4.7 Utility Notification - No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall be installed until evidence has
been given to the Site Plan Review Authority that the owner has submitted notification to the utility
company of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
21.48.4.8 Lighting - Lighting of large-scale ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be consistent with
local, state and federal law. Lighting of other parts of the installation, such as appurtenant structures,
shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes, and shall be reasonably shielded
from abutting properties. Where feasible, lighting of the solar energy system shall be directed downward
and shall incorporate full cut- off fixtures to reduce light pollution.
21.48.4.9 Signage - Signs on large-scale ground-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with the
County’s sign ordinance and be visible from the site access point. A sign shall be required to identify the
XXI-64
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance