15.5.1 Apartment buildings with greater than eight (8) units per building
15.5.2 Transitional Shelters: Temporary shelters, overnight shelters and temporary residences
15.5.2.1 A minimum of 120 sq. ft. of area per individual occupant shall be provided
15.5.2.2 Up to six (6) non-related occupants may be allowed
15.5.2.3 Unlisted property uses if authorized under Article 21.44
SECTION 15.6 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Buildings in the Town Center MUZ shall possess residential style architectural variety but must enhance the
overall cohesiveness of the Town Center MUZ’s character and appearance as determined and described
herein. Except as otherwise noted, buildings and uses in the Town Center MUZ shall comply with the
following requirements:
15.6.1 Building placement: Buildings shall be built so that the front building line is within the Build-toArea. The Otsego County Planning Commission may require greater setbacks if such space, in their
determination, is needed for other requirements.
15.6.2 Building Design: Buildings shall be of traditional residential home architecture and style.
15.6.2.1 A porch at the main floor level shall be on the front street façade measuring 120 sq. ft. or ten
percent (10%) of the main floor area, whichever is greater.
15.6.2.2 Main floor level shall be elevated thirty-two inches (32”) to forty-eight inches (48”) above the
grade at the Build-to-Line.
15.6.3 Building Materials: Building materials that produce the traditional style look are required. The
following materials are prohibited on the exterior walls: Exposed concrete or cement blocks above the
foundation, asbestos siding, tar, or felt paper, T-111 panels and standing seam panels.
15.6.4 Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided, maintained, repaired and/or replaced by the property
owner. Sidewalks shall conform to placement and level of adjacent neighborhood sidewalks or be
located one foot (1’) inside of the street right of way along all streets abutting the property. Sidewalks
shall be a minimum of forty-eight inches (48”) wide or the width of adjoining sidewalks or as approved
during site plan review. Greater width may be required during site plan review. Sidewalk sections shall
be maintained, repaired or replaced when they are deemed hazardous. Such maintenance, repair or
replacement shall be completed within forty-five (45) days of written notice by Otsego County Building
and Zoning.
15.6.5 Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment and appliances for central air conditioning,
telecommunications and other such devices shall be located in the rear of the building. Outdoor burning
units (stoves/furnaces) are prohibited.
15.6.6 Landscaping: Landscaping is an integral part of this district and shall compliment the district and
surrounding uses. [Permit criteria are included in Article 21.18]
15.6.7 Utilities: All utilities and service structures shall be located underground except such equipment as
transformers, control panels, service connections and meters. All above ground equipment shall be
located at the rear of the building. [Permit criteria includes Article 21.10 regarding screening and fence]
15.6.8 Shared driveways: Sharing of driveways is allowed with a written agreement that is recorded at
Otsego County on all applicable deeds. [Permit criteria includes Article 25.3]

XV-7
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance