21.48.3 Medium-Scale Roof or Ground Mounted Solar Systems:
Medium-scale roof or ground mounted solar energy systems shall undergo the Site Plan Review process as
detailed in Article 23. In addition, standards for medium-scale roof or ground-mounted solar energy systems
are as follows:
Site Plans for ground and roof-mounted Solar Energy Systems shall contain the following:
21.48.3.1 Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all roof-mounted systems, the applicant shall
provide:
a. The shortest distance between the solar collector, associated components and all edges of the roof.
b. The distance between the solar collector, associated components and any other existing rooftop features
such as chimneys, spires, access points, etc.
c. The height of the solar collector and associated components both from finished grade and, where
applicable, from the finished surface of the roof.
21.48.3.2 Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems – For all ground-mounted systems, the applicant shall
provide:
a. The distance between the outermost proposed solar collector(s) and associated components and all
property lines and existing on-site buildings and structures.
b. The tallest finished height of the solar collector(s) and associated components.
c. Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, grading, vegetation clearing and planting, exterior lighting,
screening vegetation or structures. [Ref Article 23]
21.48.3.3 System Components – The Site Plan must include documentation of the major system
components to be used, for example the panels, mounting system, and inverter.
21.48.3.4 Installer Details – The Site Plan must include the name, address, and contact information for
proposed system installer
21.48.3.5 Utility Notification - No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall be installed until evidence has
been given to the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator, that the owner has submitted notification
to the utility company of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator. Offgrid systems are exempt from this requirement.
21.48.3.6 Utility Connections - Reasonable efforts, as determined by the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator, shall be made to place all utility connections from the solar photovoltaic installation
underground, depending on appropriate soil conditions, shape, and topography of the site and any
requirements of the utility provider. Electrical transformers for utility interconnections may be above
ground if required by the utility provider.
21.48.3.7 Safety - The medium-scale ground-mounted solar energy system owner or operator shall provide
a copy of the Site Plan Review application to the local fire chief. All means of shutting down the solar
installation shall be clearly marked.
21.48.3.8 Visual Impact – Reasonable efforts, as determined by the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator, shall be made to minimize visual impacts by preserving natural vegetation, screening
abutting properties, or other appropriate measures.
21.48.3.9 Land Clearing, Soil Erosion and Habitat Impacts - Clearing of natural vegetation shall be
limited to what is necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of ground-mounted solar
energy systems or as otherwise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations, and bylaws/ordinances.

XXI-62
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance