ARTICLE 23 SITE PLAN REVIEW
Amended 9.12.2017

Site Plan Review and approval of all development proposals listed below is required by the provisions of this
Article. The intent of this Article is to provide for consultation and cooperation between the land developer and
the Zoning Administrator so that beneficial utilization of the land is achieved at the same time that adverse effects
upon the surrounding land uses are minimized consistent with the requirements and purposes of this Ordinance.
Through the application of the following provisions, the attainment of the Comprehensive Plan of Otsego County
will be assured and its communities will develop in an orderly fashion.
SECTION 23.1 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED
Site Plan Review is required for the following uses:
23.1.1 Any use or development for which the submission of a site plan is required by any provision of this
Ordinance.
23.1.2 Any development for which off-street parking areas in excess of five (5) spaces are provided as required in
this Ordinance.
Any use in a B1, B2, B3 and Industrial zone.
Any Special Land Use [See Article 19]
(Note: An application for a zoning permit for a land use not requiring Site Plan Review shall contain a Plot Plan
as outlined in Article 25.3.3.)
SECTION 23.2 APPLICATIONS FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW
An application for site plan review shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator. The completed application
and site plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator along with fifteen (15) copies of each for
distribution. The application, site plan and copies shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission, in order to have the site plan review scheduled for that
meeting. The applicant shall also meet requirements of Article 27 Township Participation in County Zoning. The
application for site plan review and the site plan shall contain the following information:
23.2.1 The application shall, at a minimum, include the following information:
23.2.1.1 The applicant's name, address and phone number in full
23.2.1.2 Proof of property ownership and whether there are any options on the property or any liens against it
23.2.1.3 A signed statement that the applicant is the owner of the property or officially acting on the owner's
behalf
23.2.1.4 The name and address of the owner(s) of record if the applicant is not the owner of record (or firm or
corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the land), and the signature of the owner(s)
23.2.1.5 The address and or parcel number of the property
23.2.1.6 Name and address of the developer (if different from the applicant)
23.2.1.7 Name and address of the engineer, architect and/or land surveyor
23.2.1.8 Project title
23.2.1.9 Project description, including the total number of structures, units, bedrooms, offices, square feet, total
and usable floor area, parking spaces, carports or garages, employees by shift, amount of recreation and
open space, type of recreation facilities to be provided and related information as pertinent or otherwise
required by the ordinance
23.2.1.10 A vicinity map drawn to with North point indicated
23.2.1.11 The gross and net acreage of all parcels in the project
23.2.1.12 Land uses, zoning classification and existing structures on the subject parcel and adjoining parcels
23.2.1.13 Project completion schedule/development phases
XXIII-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance