1. A description of the nature of the proposed special use or planned unit development request.
2. A description of the property on which the proposed special use or planned unit development will be
located. The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the property. Street
addresses, however, do not need to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist within the
property. If there are no street addresses, other means of identification may be used, such as using tax
parcel identification numbers or including a map showing the location of the property.
3. The time, date, and place the proposed special use or planned unit development request will be
considered.
4. The address where and the deadline when written comments will be received concerning the proposed
special use or planned unit development request.
B. The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the County not less than fifteen
(15) days before the scheduled public hearing.
C. The notice shall be sent by first-class mail or personal delivery to the owners of the property or properties
proposed for Special Use or Planned Unit Development not less than fifteen (15) days before the
scheduled public hearing.
D. The notice shall also be sent by first-class mail or personal delivery to all persons to whom real property
is assessed within three hundred feet (300’) of the property on which the proposed special use or planned
unit development will be located and to the occupants of all structures within three hundred feet (300’) of
the property on which the proposed special use or planned unit development will be located not less than
fifteen (15) days before the scheduled public hearing, regardless of whether the property or occupant is
located in the County. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may be used in
making notification under this subsection.
SECTION 19.6 REVIEW AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY
Following the public hearing the Planning Commission shall review the special land use request and shall
approve, deny, or approve with conditions the special use permit based on the standards for special land use
approval specified in Section 19.8 of this Ordinance. The Planning Commission’s decision shall be in
writing and shall include findings of fact, based on the evidence represented at the public hearing, on each
standard.
SECTION 19.7 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL
The Planning Commission shall approve, or approve with conditions, an application for a special land use
permit only upon a finding that the proposed special land use complies with all of the following standards:
19.7.1 The property subject to the application is located in a zoning district in which the proposed special
land use is allowed.
19.7.2 The proposed special land use will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, or equipment that
will create a substantially negative impact on the natural resources of the county or the natural
environment as a whole.
19.7.3 The proposed special land use will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials or equipment that
will create a substantially negative impact on other conforming properties in the area by reason of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, odors or the accumulation of scrap material that can be seen from any public
highway or seen from any adjoining land owned by another person.
19.7.4 The proposed special land used will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as not to
diminish the opportunity for the surrounding properties to be used and developed as zoned.
19.7.5 The proposed special land use will not place demands on fire, police or other public resources in
excess of current capacity.
19.7.6 The proposed special land use will be adequately served by public or private streets, water and sewer
facilities and refuse collection and disposal services.
XIX-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance