21.9.1.5 An independent acoustical sound study shall be a requirement of the special use application with
approval based on the specific study. The cost of the study will be at the owner’s expense and
conducted prior to approval. The Planning Commission will issue an appropriate buffer
recommendation based upon the study’s findings. The following sound criteria will be adhered to:
21.9.1.5.1 Interference with sound monitoring equipment
No person shall remove or render inaccurate or inoperative any sound level meter or any similar
monitoring instrument or device positioned for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section.
21.9.1.5.2 Prohibited acts; purpose generally
It is the purpose of this article that no person shall create, assist in creating, continue or permit the
continuation of any excessive or unnecessarily loud disturbance of noise of a high volume or intensity
which is clearly audible and disturbs, annoys or endangers the safety of others beyond the immediate
vicinity of the disturbance ("noise disturbances").
21.9.1.5.3 Maximum permissible sound levels for amplified sounds and mechanical devices
Use of any loud speaker, amplifier or other instrument or device, whether stationary or mounted on a
vehicle for any purpose, shall be subject to the following:
(1) Continuous sound.
a. No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit the operation of any source of amplified sound on any
property or in the public right-of-way in such a manner as to create a sound level that exceeds the sound
level limits listed in Table I as measured at any location at or within the property line of another person's
property or at or above the shoreline of any body of water. A sound source shall not continuously exceed
the sound level listed in Table I for longer than the period of time defined in subsection (1)b. Sound
pressure levels in excess of those established in Table I for the period of time in subsection (1)b, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that such sound is in violation of this Ordinance.
TABLE I
MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVEL LIMITS DB(A)
Commercial and Parks-Recreation (all times):
70
Residential (all times):
70
b. The limits defined in Table I may not be exceeded continuously for more than one minute.
c. Nothing in this section supersedes the requirements of employers to comply with the Occupational
Noise Exposure Standard of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (29 CFR Part 1910.95).
Compliance will help conserve workers' hearing, and reduce potential liability for the source.
(2) Steady pure tones. If the sound source under investigation is a mechanical device, and is in the
authorized county official's opinion emitting a sound with a steady tonal quality, the maximum permissible
sound level limits in Table I shall be reduced by 5dB. The sound emissions must be comprised of a single
frequency and/or its harmonics, which may be referred to as a tone, whine, hum or buzz. Such sound
sources include, but are not limited to: heating, ventilating or air conditioning units; refrigeration units; and
transformers.
21.9.1.5.4 Procedures for the determination of sound levels
The sound level may be measured with a field calibrated sound level meter or readily available
application. The sound level meter shall conform with ANSI S1.13 of 1973, or its successor provision.
The DB(A) methodology will be used to measure sound levels, and the meter readings will be set for a
fast response.
21.9.1.5.5 Liability of owner, lessee or occupant
If the person responsible for an activity which violates this section cannot be determined, the owner
of the property upon which the activity is located shall be deemed responsible for the violation unless
the property is leased or occupied by persons other than the owner, in which case the lessees or
occupants in possession and /or control of the property shall be responsible for the violation.
XXI-5
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance