21.25.6.3 The written plan shall indicate the phases of operation and ending date for each phase.
21.25.6.4 The written plan shall indicate the method by which the operation shall be secured from entry
during hours of non-operation.
21.25.6.5 The written plan shall indicate the proposed hours and days of operation.
21.25.7 Reclamation Plan:
21.25.7.1 A written detailed reclamation plan meeting all of the requirements of 21.25.2, 21.25.3 shall be
submitted with the application and operational plan. The submitted reclamation plan shall include
photographs of the site prior to commencement of the proposed operation.
21.25.7.2 The written reclamation plan shall be approved by Planning Commission and may have additional
conditions placed upon it prior to final approval.
21.25.7.3 The approved site plan and/or reclamation plan may be revised at any time by mutual consent of the
operator and the Planning Commission to adjust to changed conditions, technology or to correct an
oversight. Any costs to amend the plan(s) are to be borne by the initiating party. The Planning
Commission may require the modification of the approved Site plan and/or reclamation plan when:
a. Modification of the plan is necessary so that it will conform to existing laws.
b.It is found that the previously approved plan is clearly impractical to implement and maintain.
c. The approved plan is obviously not accomplishing the intent of the Ordinance.
d.Any modification shall be subject to all provisions of Article 19 and Article 23.
21.25.8 Approval Process:
21.25.8.1 All approvals shall be made in accordance with the process prescribed in Article 19 PERMITTED
USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
21.25.9 Performance Guarantees:
After a special use permit application has been approved, but before the permit is issued, the applicant shall file
with the Otsego County Clerk, a performance guarantee in the form of a cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable letter of credit, or surety bond acceptable to the Planning Commission and conditioned on faithful
performance of all requirements under Section 21.25 and the permit.
The performance guarantee shall cover that area of land within the permit area on which file applicant will
initiate and conduct the mining and rehabilitation operations. The amount of the performance guarantee shall
be determined by the Planning Commission and shall reflect the rehabilitation requirements of the permit and the
probable difficulty of the rehabilitation, considering such factors as topography, geology of the site,
hydrology, and revegetation potential. The amount of the performance guarantee shall be sufficient to assure
the completion of the rehabilitation plan if the rehabilitation had to be performed by the County in the event of
non-performance by the applicant. Any cash deposit of certified funds shall be refunded to the applicant in
the following manner:
a.

One-third (⅓) of the cash deposit after completion of one-third (⅓) of the rehabilitation plan;

b. Two-thirds (⅔) of the cash deposit after completion of two-thirds (⅔) of the rehabilitation plan;
c.

The balance at the completion of the rehabilitation plan. Any irrevocable letter of credit or surety bond
shall be returned to the applicant upon completion of the rehabilitation plan.

In order to receive a refund of the performance guarantee as provided for in subsections (a) through (c) above,
the applicant shall file a written request with the Zoning Administrator. The written request shall include the
type and dates of rehabilitation work performed, and a description of the results achieved as they relate to the
applicant's rehabilitation plan. Within thirty (30) days after receiving the written request for a refund of the
performance guarantee, the Zoning Administrator shall conduct an inspection and evaluation of the
XXI-24
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance