25.3.3.1.1 Name, address and telephone number of the applicant (and owner if different).
25.3.3.1.2 The location, shape, area and dimension of the lot, including setbacks and shoreland and
natural river districts, if any.
25.3.3.1.3 The location, dimensions and height of the existing and/or proposed structures to be erected,
altered, or moved on the lot.
25.3.3.1.4 A description of proposed use of the building(s), land or structures.
25.3.3.1.5 The proposed number of sleeping rooms, dwelling units, occupants, employees, customers and
other users.
25.3.3.1.6 The yard, open space and parking lot dimensions, parking space dimensions, and number of
spaces.
25.3.3.1.7 A vicinity sketch showing the location of the site in relation to the surrounding street system,
and adjacent land uses within three hundred feet (300’) in every direction including on the opposite
side of any public street; also showing adjacent landowners.
25.3.3.1.8 Location of any septic system or drain field and well.
25.3.3.1.9 Configuration of the driveway and parking, county drains and site drainage patterns.
25.3.3.1.10 Existing public right-of-way or easements
25.3.3.1.11 Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator to determine and
provide for the enforcement of this Ordinance.
25.3.3.2 Sanitary Sewer or Septic Approval: In the case of a permit for buildings proposed for human
occupancy or required by law to have plumbing fixtures, either a report from the County Health
Department certifying in writing the approval of a private sanitary sewage disposal system, or when
public sanitary sewage service is available or required by local ordinance or state law, a written notice of
acceptance or hook-up fee receipt shall be required.
25.3.3.3 Water Supply Approval: When a municipal, public or private water supply system is required by
law or proposed by the applicant, either a report from the County Health Department certifying approval
of a proposed private water supply system, or when municipal or public water supply is required by local
ordinance or state law, a written notice of acceptance or hook-up fee receipt shall be required.
SECTION 25.4 VIOLATIONS
Violations of any provisions of this Ordinance are declared to be Municipal Civil Infractions and are to be
enforced pursuant to the Otsego County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
25.4.1 Notice of Violation: The Zoning Administrator, county zoning enforcement officer, county building
inspector, or other authorized personnel of the county, shall inspect each alleged or apparent violation.
Whenever an authorized county official determines that a violation of this Ordinance exists, said county
official shall issue a Notice of Violation pursuant to the Otsego County Municipal Civil Infraction
Ordinance. Said notice shall be in writing and shall specify all circumstances found to be in violation and
what corrective actions must be taken. Said Notice of Violation shall contain the name and address of the
alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the zoning ordinance section violated, time, place,
and location of the alleged violation, the place where the alleged violator shall appear before the Municipal
Violations Bureau and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made. If the alleged violator does not
appear before the Municipal Violations Bureau to admit responsibility or if the alleged violator appears and
does not admit responsibility the county official shall issue a Civil Infraction Citation pursuant to the Otsego
County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
25.4.2 Issuance of Citation: If the alleged violator does not appear before the Municipal Violations Bureau to
admit responsibility or if the alleged violator appears and does not admit responsibility the county official
shall issue a Civil Infraction Citation pursuant to the Otsego County Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
XXV-4
Table of Contents
Otsego County Zoning Ordinance