FLOWAGE: Body of water impounded by a dam, used interchangeably with reservoir, impoundment, and
flood water.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building used for the non-commercial storage of property owned by the owners
of the parcel on which the building is located.
GARBAGE: The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food. A self-contained compost pile is not considered garbage.
GARDEN AREA: A specified area within the side or rear yard of a parcel used specifically for gardening
purposes
GARDEN FENCE: An eight-foot (8’) fence designed to prevent animal access made of a see-through
material that does not obscure one’s vision of the garden area
GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: A place primarily operated and designed for the dispensing, sale, or
offering for sale of motor fuels directly to users of motor vehicles, together with the sale of minor
accessories.
GLAZING: Furnishing or fitting with glass all surfaces on a fenestration.
GOLF COURSE POLICY GUIDELINES: Policy Guidelines for Minimizing Environmental Impacts
from Golf Course Development in Otsego County, published by the Otsego County Water Quality
Committee and the Northeast Michigan Council of Governments, as adopted by resolution of the Otsego
County Planning Commission.
GRADE: For the purpose of regulating the number of stories and the height of buildings, the building
grade shall be the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building. If the ground is not level, the
grade shall be determined by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building.
GUEST HOUSE: A building accessory to the main single-family dwelling constructed under the same
standards as those required for the main dwelling used for housing guests temporarily and not for
commercial purposes, rental or for profit. A shared septic system does not by itself qualify the building as a
guest house. [See Article 17]
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Substances which are toxic, corrosive, flammable, combustible,
radioactive, or capable of producing substantial injury through handling, use, or ingestion.
HOME OCCUPATION: The partial use of a home for commercial or nonresidential uses by a resident
thereof, which is subordinate and incidental to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. Family or

group child care homes shall not be considered a home occupation and shall be regulated by 2006
PA 110, MCL 125.3206 and 1973 PA 116, MCL 722.111 to 722.128.
IMMEDIATE VICINITY: Any distance beyond the property line of the parcel or lot from which the
source of noise or disturbance is emanating as determined by the authorized county official during the
course of investigating a complaint or disturbance.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A material incapable of being penetrated by water and other liquids. Under
conditions where spills are to be retained, retention capability must be sufficient to contain one hundred
twenty-five percent (125%) of any reasonably foreseeable spill for any reasonably foreseeable period
necessary and have sufficient strength and durability to remain intact under reasonably foreseeable
conditions. For the purpose of calculating storm water runoff, impervious surfaces shall include all roofs,
slabs, pavements and gravel drives and parking lots.
JUNK: Junk includes, but is not limited to, broken and/or inoperable machinery or vehicles, or parts
relating to machinery or vehicles, or broken and unusable furniture, stove, refrigerators, or other appliances.
JUNK YARD: An open area where waste, used or second-hand materials are bought and sold, exchanged,
stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, and bottles. Junkyard also includes any area of more than 200 sq. ft. used for storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
II-7
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance