21.26.5.3 Any nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and land, may be changed to another
nonconforming use provided that the other use is equally or more appropriate to the district than the
existing nonconforming use.
21.26.5.4 Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is
superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which such
structure is located, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed. A change in tenancy and
ownership of nonconforming premises is permissible.
21.26.5.5 When a nonconforming use of structure, land, or structure and land in combination, is discontinued
or ceases to exist for eighteen (18) consecutive months, the use, structure, or structure and premises in
combination shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
21.26.5.6 Removal or destruction of the use and/or structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status.
21.26.6 Repair and Maintenance
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any
building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order
of such official.
21.26.7 Special Land Use is Not a Nonconforming Use
Any use for which a special use permit is issued as provided in this Ordinance shall not be deemed a
nonconforming use, but shall without further action be deemed a conforming use in such district.
SECTION 21.27 PARKING
Amended 5.12.2020
Amended 8.27.2024

There shall be provided in all districts at the time of erection or enlargement of any main building or structure or
use, automobile off-street parking space with adequate access to all spaces.
21.27.1 Off-street parking for other than residential uses shall be either on the same lot or within four hundred
feet (400’) of the building it is intended to serve, measured from the nearest point of the building to the
nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
21.27.2 Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall not be changed to any other use unless and
until equal facilities are provided elsewhere.
21.27.3 In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where operating hours of uses do not overlap,
the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant an exception by reducing the total number of spaces required.
21.27.4 The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks, or the repair of vehicles is prohibited on
required off-street parking lots.
21.27.5 Residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a driveway, parking strip, parking bay, garage,
carport, or combination thereof.
21.27.6 The parking or storage of any commercial motor vehicle shall be prohibited in any R1, R2 or RR
District, or in any residential area with lots of 20,000 sq. ft. or less. [See definition of COMMERCIAL
MOTOR VEHICLE.]
21.27.7 For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces required, the definition of FLOOR AREA,
USABLE shall govern.
21.27.8 For those uses not specifically mentioned in the Off-street Parking Schedule, requirements for off-street
parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Board of Appeals considers as being similar in type.
21.27.9 Entrance drives to the property and off-street parking area shall be no less than twenty-five feet (25’)
from a street intersection (measured from the road right-of-way) or from the boundary of a different Zoning
XXI-28
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance