owner and provide a twenty-four (24) hour emergency contact phone number. Solar energy systems shall
not be used for displaying any advertising except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or
operator of the solar energy system.
21.48.4.10 Utility Connections - Reasonable efforts, as determined by the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator, shall be made to place all utility connections from the solar photovoltaic installation
underground, depending on appropriate soil conditions, shape, and topography of the site and any
requirements of the utility provider. Electrical transformers for utility interconnections may be above
ground if required by the utility provider.
21.48.4.11 Emergency Services – The large-scale ground-mounted solar energy system owner or operator
shall provide a copy of the project summary, electrical schematic, and site plan to the local fire chief.
Upon request the owner or operator shall cooperate with local emergency services in developing an
emergency response plan. All means of shutting down the solar energy system shall be clearly marked.
The owner or operator shall identify a responsible person for public inquiries throughout the life of the
installation.
21.48.4.12 Land Clearing, Soil Erosion and Habitat Impacts - Clearing of natural vegetation shall be
limited to what is necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of solar energy system or
otherwise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations, and bylaws/ordinances.
21.48.4.13 Emergency Access – Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be located in such a manner as
to ensure emergency access to the roof, provide pathways to specific areas of the roof, provide for smoke
ventilation opportunities, and provide emergency egress from the roof.
a. For buildings with pitched roofs, solar collectors shall be located in a manner that provides a
minimum of one three-foot (3’) wide clear access pathway from the eave to the ridge on each roof
slope where solar energy systems are located as well as one three-foot (3’) smoke ventilation
buffer along the ridge.
b. Residential rooftops that are flat shall have a minimum three- foot (3’) wide clear perimeter and
commercial buildings that are flat shall have a minimum four-foot (4’) wide clear perimeter
between a solar energy system and the roofline, as well as a three-foot (3’) wide clear perimeter
around roof-mounted equipment such as HVAC units.
c. To the extent practicable, the access pathway shall be located at a structurally strong location
on the building (such as a bearing wall).
21.48.4.14 Monitoring and Maintenance
a. Solar Energy System Conditions - The large-scale ground-mounted solar energy system owner or
operator shall maintain the facility in good condition. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
painting, structural repairs, and integrity of security measures. Site access shall be maintained to a level
acceptable to the local Fire Chief, Emergency Management Director, and Emergency Medical Services.
The owner or operator shall be responsible for the cost of maintaining the solar energy system and any
access road(s), unless accepted as a public way.
b. All material modifications to a large-scale ground- mounted solar energy system made after issuance of
the required building permit shall require approval by the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator.
21.48.4.15 Abandonment or Decommissioning
21.48.4.15.1 Removal Requirements
Any large-scale ground-mounted solar energy system which has reached the end of its useful life or has
been abandoned consistent with Section 21.48.4.15.2 of this Ordinance shall be removed. The owner or
operator shall physically remove the installation no more than one hundred fifty (150) days after the date
of discontinued operations. The owner or operator shall notify the Planning Commission or Zoning
XXI-65
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance