ARTICLE 18 LOTS NEAR WATER
INTENT
For the purpose of preventing and controlling water pollution, preserving shoreland cover, natural beauty and
to further the maintenance of safe and healthy conditions on shorelands of streams, rivers, lakes and
flowages of water that appears on the U.S. Geological Survey Quadrangle maps of Otsego County.
SECTION 18.1 SHORELAND DEFINITION
Shoreland shall be considered in this Ordinance as the land paralleling the lake shoreline, fifty feet (50’)
wide as measured from the ordinary high-water level and the land paralleling the banks of all rivers, streams
and flowages of water in the County that appear on the most Geological Survey Quadrangle maps, one
hundred fifty feet (150’) wide, measured at right angles to the shoreline or bank, on a horizontal plane.
SECTION 18.2 SHORELAND BUILDING SETBACKS
Buildings and structures, excepting satellite dishes, shall not be constructed or placed within the shoreland.
SECTION 18.3 MAINTENANCE OF SHORELAND
18.3.1 At the discretion of the landowner, dead, diseased, or dying trees within the shoreland area may be
removed and/or the trimming and pruning of live trees and shrubs may be undertaken to improve the view
and aesthetic appearance of the shoreline. Such trimming or pruning may not remove so much of the tree
or shrub that the life of the plant is endangered. Provided further, that if a tree must be removed because
it is dead or diseased, the stump may be cut flush with the ground, but the roots shall not be removed.
18.3.2 Natural shrubbery and ground cover vegetation shall be preserved as far as practicable and where
removed it shall be replaced with other vegetation that does not require fertilization and is equally
effective in retarding run off, preventing erosion and preserving natural beauty. Lawn grasses are not a
suitable substitute for natural ground cover vegetation in the shoreland zone. It is recommended that the
property owner seek advice on pruning and plantings from the Cooperative Extension Service, Soil
Conservation Service or professional nursery personnel.
SECTION 18.4 CONSTRUCTION WITHIN SHORELANDS BY PERMIT
Construction within the Shoreland shall be limited to minimal landscaping features necessary to enable use
and enjoyment of the Shoreland and/or access walkways. No structures, other than decks or walkways or
landscape features as noted in this section, shall be constructed within the Shoreland. Construction may be
permitted only following site plan review by the Zoning Administrator under the following conditions:
Site plan application procedures as provided in Section 18.8 must be followed.
To minimize erosion, construction must be the minimum required. No steps or walkway within the
shoreland area shall have a clear width of more than five feet (5’) or an overall width of more than six feet
(6’) including handrails if required by the building code. Landscape features must be the minimum
necessary to permit use and enjoyment of the Shoreland. Retaining walls necessary as a result of steep
slopes shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot width; patios shall not exceed 64 sq. ft. in area.
On lots without suitable beach front, a raised platform not larger than 64 sq. ft. may be constructed. In
addition to the raised platform, steps or a walkway may be constructed.
The platform shall be constructed of wood or other suitable material approved by the Zoning Administrator.
This platform shall have a length not more than one and one-half (1½) times its width, except that where
slopes are greater than one-foot (1’) vertical on three feet (3’) horizontal, more length may be allowed to
offset the shallow width, so long as the overall square footage is not increased. On slopes greater than one
foot on three feet (1:3’), dry-stacked platforms and retaining walls of earth-colored stones, brick or other
suitable material approved by the Zoning Administrator, may be substituted for raised wooden platforms.
Erosion control measures shall be incorporated into any design, including permanent stabilization of soils
beneath the platform, which will no longer support vegetation due to lack of natural light. Where slopes are
greater than one foot on three feet (1:3’), stone riprap placed over a geotextile fabric or other permanent
XVIII-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance