21.33.2.1: Recreational Equipment under this Section shall not be occupied for more than sixty
(60) days in any calendar year.
21.33.2.2: R1, R2
R3, RR

Number of Recreational Equipment Units Allowed:
Number of Recreational Equipment Units Allowed:

0
1

21.33.2.3: FR, AR

Number of Recreational Equipment Units Allowed:

2

21.33.3 Alter, Enlarge, Repair
The unit shall not be enlarged with any structural annex or addition.
21.33.4 Recreational Equipment Used During Construction - Permit Required
Recreational Equipment may be used as a temporary dwelling in any Zoning District until the owner
or occupant thereof completes the construction or erection of a conventional housing unit for which a
Building Permit has been issued. Upon application for a temporary dwelling permit from the Zoning
Administrator, the applicant may obtain a permit for an initial period not to exceed one hundred eighty
(180) days from the effective date of the permit; and upon showing reasonable and diligent progress,
may renew the permit for a maximum of an additional one hundred eighty (180) days. Sanitary
facilities are subject to Health Department approval.
21.33.5 Campgrounds – Special Use Permit Needed
A Special Use permit may be granted by the Planning Commission for a private Recreational Vehicle Park
with tenting areas and used as a general camping ground (commercial campgrounds) in R3, FR, AR and B1,
B2, B3 Districts when the site plan has been reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission, provided
that the following conditions are met:
21.33.5.1 The minimum County and/or State of Michigan health requirements governing Recreational
Vehicle Park with camping areas for public use are met.
21.33.5.2 The use is developed on a site of at least twenty (20) acres and is at least six hundred feet (600’)
in width.
SECTION 21.34 RESTRICTED USES
Amended 3.29.2018

INTENT
This section shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and
welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
No parcel shall be used for the open or unenclosed storage, disposition, wrecking, dismantling, baling,
salvaging, location, accumulation or abandonment, either temporarily or otherwise, of any discarded disused or
dismantled vehicles, machinery, junk, or junked articles, or any parts thereof, unless located in a Zoning
District that permits such use and a site plan has been approved by the Planning Commission.
DEFINITIONS:
Garbage: The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption
of food. A self-contained compost pile is not considered garbage.
Junk: Junk includes, but is not limited to, broken and/or inoperable machinery or vehicles, or parts relating to
machinery or vehicles, or broken and unusable furniture, stove, refrigerators, or other appliances.
21.34.1 Exterior Property Areas
21.34.1.1 Sanitation
Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant
shall keep that part of the exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be free from any accumulation of garbage and/or junk.
XXI-35
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance