23.2.4 The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator may waive any site plan submittal requirement when
any of the following circumstances are found to be in existence:
23.2.4.1 The data will serve no useful purpose. Circumstances have not significantly changed on the property
since the last time detailed information on the site was submitted. Another reasonable circumstance or
condition exists (not including the cost of complying).
23.2.5 Application fees must be paid when the application is submitted and sufficient escrow accounts may be
established to cover the projected review costs.
SECTION 23.3 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE
A pre-application conference is not mandatory, but it is strongly advised. During this conceptual review phase, a
generalized site plan is presented by a prospective applicant for consideration of the overall idea of the
development. Basic questions of use, density, integration with existing development in the area and impacts on
and the availability of public infrastructure are discussed. This conference is scheduled by a prospective applicant
with the Zoning Administrator and such other representatives as described in the Planning Commission bylaws.
At this meeting the applicant or his/her representative is also presented with the applicable procedures required by
the Ordinance for approval of the proposed development and with any special problems or steps that might have
to be followed, such as requests to the Board of Appeals for a variance. There is no charge or fee to the applicant
for this meeting.
SECTION 23.4 AGENCY REVIEW
The applicant shall submit a copy of required site plans and a blank comment form supplied by the Otsego County
Zoning Administrator to designated Federal, State and Local agencies and departments for review as determined
and requested by the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator.
The applicant may be requested to submit site plans to one or more of the following agencies: the Otsego County
Road Commission; the Michigan Department of Transportation; the Michigan State Police, the Otsego County
Sheriff; the Otsego County Conservation District; the District Health Department; the Fire Department having
jurisdiction; the Michigan Department of Natural Resources; the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality;
the Otsego County Airport; or any other agency or department deemed necessary. After delivery of the
application, site plans and comment forms, the applicant should submit proof of delivery to the Otsego County
Zoning Administrator. Comments not received from reviewing agencies by the Zoning Administrator within
fifteen (15) of days of delivery shall be considered approved without comment.
SECTION 23.5 APPROVAL AUTHORITY
The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and information submitted to determine if all required
information was supplied. If he/she determines that all required information has not been supplied, a written
notification to the applicant will be sent, citing the deficiencies. The application for site plan review cannot
proceed until all requirements have been satisfied.
The Zoning Administrator shall review and act upon site plans except where a Special Use Permit is required.
Site plans for Special Use Permit shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to the Planning Commission for
review and action. In addition, at the request of the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, a site plan for
a Principal Permitted Use may be submitted for Planning Commission review before final action by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator and Planning Commission have the authority to approve, deny or grant
conditional approval for any site plan submitted under the provisions of this ordinance. The Zoning
Administrator may hold or the Planning Commission may table a site plan, pending further information or
addition, reasonably needed to complete a site plan or comply with requirements of this Ordinance.
SECTION 23.6 CONDITIONAL APPROVALS
23.6.1 The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator may condition approval of a site plan on conformance
with the standards of this ordinance.
XXIII-4
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance