the signage wall.
Regulation 4: All businesses may display window signs in ground level windows in addition to any
wall signs. Window signs shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the total
window area. Where multiple windows are installed, signage may not be aggregated to
cover any window one hundred percent (100%) restricting all visibility rom the interior
and exterior. Signage may cover no more than fifty percent (50%) of the window on the
horizontal or vertical dimension.
Regulation 5: An automobile service station located on an outlet or an individual lot within the
development or PUD may have one (1) freestanding sign in addition to the freestanding
sign utilized for the development. The freestanding sign shall be for the purpose of
advertising gasoline prices and other services provided on the premises. The service
station sign shall comply with the regulations for a single business on its own lot as noted
in Section 21.38.1.1.3 above.
Regulation 6: Signs proposed for installation along MDOT regulated highways designed to advertise a
specific business location must be permitted in accordance with current MDOT
Regulation 225. A specific time requirement for the developed site is required and is
usually two (2) years. A business sign is a sign designed to advertise a particular
business location rather than being used for general outdoor advertising not necessarily
specific to a particular business.
Billboards or signage also referred to as outdoor advertising or outdoor highway advertising are permitted
and controlled by MDOT under sections of MDOT Regulation 225. A valid permit and sign approval are
required prior to construction of a billboard designed for general outdoor advertising
21.38.2 Non-Accessory Signs and Billboards
21.38.2.1
Billboards, poster boards and non-accessory signs may be permitted in B2, B3 and I Districts provided the
area of the sign does not exceed an area of 200 sq. ft. in B2 and B3 Districts and 300 sq. ft. in I Districts. A
non-accessory sign or billboard shall not measure longer than three (3) times its width.
Signs that come under the jurisdiction of P.A. 106 of 1972 are under the jurisdiction of the Township, if the
Township has adopted a sign ordinance.
21.38.3 Sign Lighting (Also See Section 21.19 LIGHTING OUTDOOR)
21.38.3.1
Signs internally illuminated or with a light emanating surface are allowed only in the RR, FR, AR, B1, B2,
B3, I, HX, MUZ-Main Street and MUZ-Town Center Districts provided they meet the other requirements
of this ordinance and are set back a minimum of ten feet (10’) from all road right-of-way and seventy-five
feet (75’) from any other property line.
Signs internally illuminated or if sign has a light emanating surface. All light sources and reflecting
surfaces immediately adjacent to the light source shall be shielded from view. Sign luminance level,
beginning one (1) hour after sunrise and continuing until one (1) hour before sunset, shall not exceed
(10278 Lumens) (685W Incandescent light bulb) (114W Florescent/LED) per square meter, or does not exceed
(342 Lumens) (25W Incandescent light bulb) (6.23W Florescent/LED) per square meter at all other times.
Signs that are externally illuminated shall have the light mounted on top of the sign, shall be directed
downward onto the sign and shall be shielded so as to prevent rays of light from being directed such that
reflected luminance does not exceed (342 Lumens) (25W Incandescent light bulb) (6.23W Florescent/LED) per
square meter.
21.38.4 Signs Prohibited
21.38.4.1 No sign or sign structure, shall be erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to
XXI-39
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance