ARTICLE 15 MUZ MULTIPLE USE ZONING DISTRICT
Adopted 4.13.2021

MUZ MAIN STREET MULTIPLE USE ZONING
INTENT
Main Street Multiple Use Zoning (MUZ) is established for the purpose of accommodating the highest
concentration of retail and service establishments. It is designed with the intent to promote a pedestrianoriented and accessible, central commercial service district where a variety of mutually supporting retail,
office, commercial, civic and limited residential uses are permitted. Collectively, the uses permitted in this
district are intended to provide a convenient and attractive retail and service center for the community, its
rural trade area and tourist traffic. A prime characteristic of this district is the offering of a variety of goods
and comparison-shopping opportunities directed primarily at the pedestrian shopper.
Each use shall be complementary to the stated function and purpose of the district and shall not have
adverse impact upon street capacity, safety and utilities. In an effort to encourage this type of character and
provide for the health, welfare and safety of the pedestrian in the area, drive-in and drive-through operations
are excluded from this district.
The Main Street MUZ is further designed and intended to:
A. Encourage innovative, traditional and neo-traditional commercial and mixed-use developments
B. Encourage a lively social environment and economically viable downtown with a wide variety of
uses in a pedestrian-oriented setting, with on-street customer parking
C. Extend greater opportunities for traditional community living, working, housing and recreation to
all citizens, residents and visitors of the community
D. Encourage a more efficient use of land and public services and to reflect changes in technology of
land development by directing new development in a traditional, compact and consolidated
pattern of mixed use
E. Promote a walkable community and blend land uses to minimize traffic congestion
F. Prohibit the development of drive-in and drive-through facilities which contribute to traffic
congestion and pose a threat to the pedestrian environment
G. Promote the creation of community places which are oriented to the pedestrian, thereby
promoting citizen security and social interaction
H. Promote structures that are harmonious in overall design and development pattern
I. Encourage development of a community “Main Street” with mixed land uses, on-street customer
parking and a continuous series of building façades and store fronts, which not only serves the
needs of the immediate neighborhood but also the surrounding areas
SECTION 15.1 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected, except for one (1) or more of the
following specific uses:
15.1.1 Art galleries
15.1.2 Business establishments which perform services on premises such as, but not limited to, banks,
savings and loans and credit unions, pedestrian oriented automated teller machine facilities
15.1.3 Dry cleaning establishments or pick-up stations dealing directly with the consumer, limited to 2,000
sq. ft. of floor area; Central dry-cleaning plants serving more than two (2) retail outlets shall be
prohibited.
15.1.4 Hotels, bed and breakfast inns and bed and breakfast houses with more than four (4) rooms must
meet off street parking requirements of Article 21.18.6.4.
XV-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance