SECTION 21.6 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
21.6.1 Definition
For purposes of this section and as used in the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance a Development shall be
defined as Platted Subdivisions, Condominium Developments or any division of land that creates more lots or
parcels on a parent parcel than is permitted under the Land Division Act.
21.6.2 Regulations
A development shall be reviewed pursuant to the Special Land Use regulations of Article 19 and shall conform
to the following provisions in addition to all other applicable district provisions, except that the Planning
Commission may waive the requirements of this Section for developments with fewer than ten (10) lots,
parcels or units provided the Planning Commission makes a finding that doing so will not cause any significant
public harm or harm to adjacent properties.
21.6.3 A development, shall comply with the applicable site development standards contained in Article 17
SCHEDULE OF DIMENSIONS, unless developed as a Planned Unit Development (PUD) subject to all
regulations of Article 24.
21.6.4 Developments shall comply with all federal, state and county regulations regarding the provision of a
potable water supply and waste disposal facilities.
21.6.5 Developments shall provide for dedication of easements to the appropriate public agencies for the
purposes of construction, operation, maintenance, inspection, repair, alteration, replacement and/or removal
of pipelines, conduits, mains and other installations of a similar character for the purpose of providing
public utility services, including Conveyance of sewage, potable water and Storm water runoff across,
through and under the property subject to said easement, and excavation and refilling of ditches and
trenches necessary for the location of such installations.
21.6.6 In addition to the materials required by Article 19 and Article 23 or Article 24 for PUDs if applicable,
an application for a development shall include a development plan containing the following information:
21.6.6.1 Proposed use and occupancy restrictions as will be contained in the Deed Restrictions or the
Master Deed.
21.6.6.2 All proposed deed restrictions which are conditions of the special use permit.
21.6.7 All provisions of the approved development plan shall be incorporated in the Deed Restrictions or in the
Master Deed for the development, unless exceptions are permitted by the Planning Commission. Any
proposed changes to the approved development plan shall be subject to review and approval by the County
Planning Commission as a major amendment to a permit, subject to the procedures of Article 19 and Article
23 or Article 24 for PUDs if applicable.
21.6.8 All lots, parcels or units within a development project shall be marked with monuments as provided by
State and County regulations.
21.6.8.1 The County Board of Commissioners may waive the placing of any of the required monuments and
markers for a reasonable time, not to exceed one year, on condition that the proprietor deposits with the
County Clerk cash or a certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit naming to the municipality,
whichever the proprietor selects, in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
monument and not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) in total, except that lot corner markers shall
be at the rate of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) per marker. The performance guarantee shall be
returned to the proprietor pursuant to the provisions of Section 25.6 upon receipt of a certificate by a
licensed professional surveyor that the monuments and markers have been placed as required within the
time specified.

XXI-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance