Access to or view of fire hydrants shall not be obstructed from any side.
Plantings shall be designed so as to not conflict with power lines or impede fire safety services.
21.18.2.2 Irrigation & Maintenance Performance Standards:
All uses with the exception of single family residential, which are landscaped with live plants, pursuant to
this Section shall be equipped with a watering system which will provide sufficient water to maintain plants
in a healthy condition.
21.18.2.2.1 Whenever the landscaped area required by Sections 21.18.3, 21.18.5 and 21.18.6 is 2,000 sq.
ft. or more of living plants whether or not the plants are contiguous, the site shall have a permanent
irrigation system capable of meeting the typical watering requirements of all the plant materials on
site.
21.18.2.2.2 Whenever there is less than 2,000 sq. ft. of landscaped area required by Sections 21.18.3,
21.18.5 and 21.18.6 on a site, there should be at least one reliable water source available during the
growing season. The hose bib or other water source shall be within fifty feet (50’) from a border of
the plants.
21.18.2.2.3 All irrigation systems shall be maintained in good working condition.
21.18.2.2.4 Irrigation requirements may be adjusted in part or in whole by the Zoning Administrator for
landscape areas having established healthy plant material, or where irrigation is deemed unnecessary
for plant health and survival.
All plants required by this Section shall be maintained in a live and healthy state. Dead or unsalvageable
unhealthy plants shall be replaced with the size and type of plants required on the site development plan
and by this Section. Plant materials including grasses and herbaceous plants uses on berms, along road
sides, etc. shall be routinely maintained during growing seasons. When growing in close proximity to
residential land uses, grasses and common weeds shall be maintained at a height of ten inches (10”) or
less.
All fences, walls and similar structures shall be maintained in good condition. Chipped paint, missing
fence pieces, leaning or fallen portions of a fence or other forms of deterioration shall immediately be
replaced or repaired.
Replacement of plants may be delayed whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that extenuating
circumstances beyond the owner's control prevent the immediate replacement of the dead or unhealthy
plants within a time established by the Zoning Administrator. In any event, the dead or salvageable
plants shall be replaced within nine (9) months of the time the plants are clearly dead.
21.18.2.3 Existing Vegetation:
If there is no practical alternative in terms of sighting buildings and other development, trees and other
plants may be removed.
Significant shrubs, grasses and trees are to be preserved within areas not required for development.
Healthy, younger mature plants shall be preserved which would normally succeed older plants.
Natural vegetation shall be preserved within areas below an ordinary high-water mark of a lake, stream or
other water body.
Existing vegetation to be preserved shall be protected during construction with barriers as required and
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
The application of landscape standards within this Ordinance may be adjusted in part or in whole by the
Zoning Administrator to allow credit for established healthy plant material to be retained on or adjacent to
the site if such an adjustment is consistent with the intent of this Ordinance.
XXI-13
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance