c. Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning ordinance, be related to the standards
established in the ordinance for the WTG – Large under consideration, and be necessary to insure
compliance with those standards.
21.47.5.4 Ongoing Compliance regarding WTG – LARGE
a. The noise propagation, blade flicker and ice hazard standards developed in permitting of WTGs – Large
are absolute. Once WTGs – Large are permitted, the owners have the option of compliance or
discontinuation of operations.
b. The owner of a WTG – Large shall conduct physical inspections of the WTG – Large structure(s) and
associated equipment annually to ensure continuing compliance with this section and any conditions
imposed with the approval of the WTG – Large. Copies of all inspection reports shall be submitted to
the zoning administrator within thirty (30) days of the inspection. In the event a WTG – Large owner
fails to comply with this Section the County shall have the authority to have the WTG – Large inspected
and shall utilize funds from the performance bond to cover the costs of such inspection.
c. Noise exceeding permitted levels. The ordinance recognizes that certain wind and weather conditions
and altitude densities can enhance temporary noise pressure that exceeds permitted levels. If noncompliance with the noise standards is brought to the attention of Otsego County enforcement officials
the complaint will be investigated and if confirmed, written notice will be sent to the WTG – Large
owner requiring post permit documentation of corrective measures taken to address the sound.
Documentation could include statements from those adjusting or modifying the WTG – Large and may,
at the option of Otsego County, include additional noise propagation certification, conducted in a manner
similar to that presented in Section 21.47.5.1(g) tailored to the specific problem being addressed.
21.47.5.5 Performance Guarantee for WTG – LARGE
In connection with the approval of a WTG – Large the Planning Commission shall require the owner of the
WTG – Large to furnish the county with a performance guarantee in the form of a cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond acceptable to the county in an amount equal to the
estimated costs associated with removal of the WTG – Large and all associated equipment and accessory
structures and restoration of the site to a reusable condition which shall include the removal of all
underground structures to a depth of ten feet (10’) below the natural ground level at that location.
A detailed cost estimate for the removal of the tower shall be provided with the application and shall be
based on Means Construction Estimating Guide or similar accepted pricing schedule and shall not include
credit for the salvageable value of any materials.
The amount of the performance guarantee shall be reviewed every five (5) years at the time of the Planning
Commission review of the WTG – Large as noted in Section 21.47.5.7. The amount of the performance
guarantee shall be increased based on an inflation rate equal to the average of the previous ten (10) years
Consumer Price Index, but not less than three and one-half percent (3½%) per year.
If the performance bond is used to cover costs associated with inspections as noted in Section 21.47.5.4(b),
the owner of the WTG – Large shall immediately insure that the full bond amount is available. Failure by
the owner of the WTG – Large to ensure that the full bond amount is available shall be a violation of this
ordinance.
21.47.5.6 Removal of WTG – LARGE
WTG – Large that are not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be removed by the
owner of the WTG – Large within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice from the County requiring such
removal. For purposes of this section, non-operation shall be deemed to include, but shall not be limited to,
the blades of the WTG – Large remaining stationary so that wind resources are not being converted into
electric or mechanical energy, or the WTG – Large is no longer connected to the public utility electricity
distribution system. In the event a WTG – Large owner fails to remove the WTG – Large as required by
this section the County shall have the authority to remove the WTG – Large and shall utilize the
XXI-56
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance