special permit. If there is a comparable use, then the procedures established in this ordinance for approval of a
permit for that use must next be initiated in order for the applicant to apply for the necessary permit(s). If there
is no comparable use then the applicant shall be so informed and an amendment to the text of the ordinance or
a rezoning would be necessary prior to establishing requested use on the property.
SECTION 21.45 VETERINARY HOSPITALS, KENNELS
Veterinary hospitals and indoor kennels may be permitted by right in the B2, B3, AR & FR Districts provided
all of the criteria noted in Section 21.45.2 are complied with.
21.45.1 Outdoor Kennels
Special Use Permits may be granted by the Planning Commission for outdoor kennels in the B2, B3, AR, and
FR Zones.
21.45.1.1 Minimum site size of ten (10) acres.
21.45.1.2 Facility shall be located at least five hundred feet (500’) from the appropriate district boundary or
any off-premises residence.
21.45.1.3 Documentation must be provided, by the applicant, to demonstrate that the County Animal
Control Director has approved compliance with State and Local Animal Control and Health Regulations.
21.45.2 Veterinary Hospitals and Indoor Kennels
a. Veterinary Hospitals shall have a minimum lot size of one and one-half (1½) acres.
b. Indoor Kennels shall have a minimum lot size of ten (10) acres.
c. For both Veterinary Hospitals and Indoor Kennels buildings in which animals are kept, runs, and/or
exercise areas shall be set back at least one hundred feet (100’) from all lot lines.
d. For both Veterinary Hospitals and Indoor Kennels documentation must be provided, by the applicant, to
demonstrate that the County Animal Control Director has approved compliance with State and Local
Animal Control and Health Regulations.
SECTION 21.46 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
Amended 7.12.2022

Reference the Telecommunication Act (Act 104 of 1996 as amended) and the Michigan Zoning and Enabling
Act (Act 110 of 2006 as amended including Act 143 of 2012). These set forth provisions concerning
placement, location and construction of towers and related facilities for wireless services, provide rules for
changes to existing towers and set time frames for municipality action. The purpose of this Section is to
establish general guidelines for the sighting of wireless communications towers and antennas. The goals of the
section are to:
1. Protect residential zoning districts from potential adverse impacts of towers and antennas;
2. Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas;
3. Minimize the total number of towers throughout the county;
4. Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as a primary option rather than
construction of additional single-use towers;
5. Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse
impact on aesthetics in this tourism-based county is minimal;
6. Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual
impact of the towers and antennas through careful design, sighting, landscape screening, and innovative
camouflaging techniques;

XXI-43
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance