19.7.7 If the proposed special land use includes more than 15,000 sq. ft. of impervious surface, then the
storm water management system employed by the use shall (i) preserve the natural drainage
characteristics of the site and enhance the aesthetics of the site to the extent possible, (ii) employ storm
water disposal through evaporation and infiltration when reasonably possible, (iii) shall not discharge
storm water directly to wetlands or surface waters unless there is no other prudent or reasonably feasible
means of discharge, (iv) shall not serve to increase the quantity of rate of discharge leaving the property
based on twenty-five (25) year storm criteria, (v) shall be designed using Best Management Practices
identified by the DNR or its successor agency, and (vi) shall identify the party responsible for
maintenance of the storm water management system.
19.7.8 The proposed special land use complies with all specific standards required under this Ordinance
applicable to it.
SECTION 19.8 CONDITIONS
The Planning Commission may attach reasonable conditions to the approval of a special use permit. These
conditions may include those necessary to insure that public services and facilities affected by a proposed
special land use will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the special
land use, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to insure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically
desirable manner. Any conditions imposed, however, shall meet all the following requirements.
19.8.1 Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety, and welfare and the social and economic
well-being of those who will use the land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed special land use, and the community as a whole.
19.8.2 Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes which are affected by the proposed
special land use.
19.8.3 Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning ordinance, be rated to the standards
established in the ordinance for the special land use under consideration, and be necessary to insure
compliance with those standards.
SECTION 19.9 COMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED SPECIAL USE PERMT REQUIRED
Unless amended pursuant to Section 19.12 of this Ordinance, an approved special land use shall be
developed, constructed, maintained, and operated in strict compliance with the approved special use permit
and any conditions of approval. In the event public or site improvements were designed by an architect or
engineer, the Applicant shall, following completion of construction, providing a statement prepared by his or
her architect or engineer certifying that all public and and/or site improvements were constructed in
compliance with the approved special land use permit and any conditions of approval.
SECTION 19.10 AMENDMENT OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT
Amendments to an approved special use permit shall be permitted only under the following circumstances:
19.10.1 The owner of property for which a special land use has been approved shall notify the zoning
administrator of any desired change to the approved special use permit. Minor changes may be approved
by the zoning administrator upon determining that the proposed revision(s) will not alter the basic design
and character of the special land use, nor any specified conditions imposed as part of the original
approval. Minor changes shall include the following:
19.10.1.1 Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign.
19.10.1.2 Movement of buildings and/or signs by no more than ten feet (10’).
19.10.1.3 Landscaping approved in the special use permit that is replaced by similar landscaping to an
equal or greater extent.
19.10.1.4 Changes in floor plans that do not exceed five percent (5%) of the total floor area and which do
not alter the character of the use or increase the amount of required parking.
XIX-3
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance