JUNK YARD - AUTOMOTIVE: An area or facility for the storage, wrecking, or salvage of parts from
inoperable motorized vehicles including cars, trucks, tractors, buses, etc., containing more than four (4)
vehicles, or occupying an area of 200 sq. ft. or more.
KENNEL: A kennel is a use that includes indoor or outdoor facilities for the boarding, for profit, of dogs
or other household pets which are owned by others as a commercial business.
LESSEE: A person who has possession of real or personal property under a lease; a person who rents land
or property from a lessor
LESSOR: A person who leases or lets a property to another; a landlord
LIGHTS: Flashing, intermittent or moving – a light that blinking, flashing, or fluttering lighting, including
changes in light intensity, brightness or color except as provided for in 21.38.3.1.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space on the same lot with a building for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading and unloading merchandise or materials
LOT: Land described in a recorded plat or by metes and bounds description, including a condominium unit
in a condominium subdivision, occupied or to be occupied by a building, structure, land use or group of
buildings having sufficient size to comply with the frontage, area, width-to-depth ratio, setbacks, yards,
coverage, open spaces and buildable area requirements of this Ordinance, and having its principal frontage
upon a public street or on a private road approved by the County.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot, excluding public or private streets,
roads, right of ways or easements dedicated for the purpose of vehicle access or transit.
LOT - CORNER: A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection of two (2) streets, which make
an angle of less than one hundred thirty-five degrees (135).
LOT - INTERIOR: Any lot other than a corner lot.
LOT - THROUGH: Any interior lot having frontage on two (2) more or less parallel streets as
distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of double frontage lots, all sides of said lots adjacent to
streets shall be considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required (also a double frontage
lot).
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of the lot occupied by main and accessory buildings
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured along the median
between the side lot lines.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
LOT LINE - FRONT: In the case of an interior lot, the line separating said lot from the street. In the case
of a corner lot, the front lot line is that line separating said lot from the street which is designated.
LOT LINE - REAR: That lot line opposite the front lot line. In the case of a lot pointed at the rear (pieshaped), the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line at least ten feet (10’) long, parallel to the front lot line,
but inside the side lot lines.
LOT LINE - SIDE: Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a document or map on file
with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by County Officials, and which actually exists as so
shown, or any part of such parcel held in record ownership separate from that of the remainder thereof.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at the two (2) points where the
building line or setback line intersects the side lot lines.
LOT - ZONING: A contiguous tract of land which at the time of filing for a Zoning Permit is designated
by its owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or
control.
II-8
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance