21.30.3 All sides of the area devoted to the use except access points shall be provided with a twenty foot (20’)
wide greenbelt planting so as to screen from view all activities within the development.
SECTION 21.31 RAILROADS
Railroads are permitted by Right in an Industrial (I) Zone. Primary railroad right-of-way are permitted in an I
Zone. Switching yards, terminal buildings, storage facilities, are permitted in Districts B3 & I.
SECTION 21.32 RECREATION CAMP AND RESORT
Recreation camps and resorts including those operated for profit may be permitted to locate in RR, AR and FR
Districts by the Planning Commission provided the following conditions are met:
21.32.1 The use is established on a minimum site area of forty (40) acres.
21.32.2 All outdoor activity areas, parking lots, main buildings and accessory buildings are located at least one
hundred and fifty feet (150’) from the property lines, and any ordinary high waterlines where applicable.
The resulting one hundred and fifty-foot (150’) yards shall be maintained as a buffer area wherein all-natural
tree/shrub cover is retained in a healthful growing condition. Planting greenbelt is required where the
recreational activity proposed is within a District or abuts a District which allows residential development with
a density of one dwelling unit or more per acre.
21.32.3 The use does not locate within the confines of a platted subdivision intended for single residential
occupancy, or parcels which are deemed by the Planning Commission to be a logical extension of such
platted area.
SECTION 21.33 RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT
Amended 6.12.2018

DEFINITIONS:
Recreational Equipment: Travel trailers, pick-up campers, coaches, motorized dwellings, tent
trailers, tentage, dune buggies, and other similar equipment meeting the intent of this Ordinance.
Campgrounds: A licensed campground is designed to accommodate short term guests occupying
travel trailers, pick-up campers, coaches, motorized dwellings, tent trailers, tents, dune buggies, and
other similar equipment meeting the intent of this Ordinance.
21.33.1 Parking
The parking or storage of any recreational equipment in R1 & R2 Districts and platted subdivisions
shall be allowed provided the following regulations are met:
21.33.1.1: No recreational equipment or trailers shall be parked or stored on any lot in a residential
district except in a building, a rear or a side yard.
21.33.1.2: Set back requirements must be met in the respective zoning districts as follows:
R1, R2, R3, RR:
FR, AR:

Side Set Back
Rear Set Back
Side Set Back
Rear Set Back

10 ft.
30 ft.
20 ft.
40 ft.

21.33.1.3: The unit is maintained in safe and ready running condition, has a valid and current
license for highway travel, and can be towed from the premises by ordinary domestic
vehicle on thirty (30) minutes notice.
21.33.1.4: The self-contained sanitary disposal system within the Recreational Equipment must be
in working order and shall not be contrary to the public health, safety or welfare.
21.33.2 Recreational Equipment Dwelling (Temporary) - Permit Not Required
Recreational Equipment may be used as a temporary dwelling without a permit provided the following
regulations are met:
XXI-34
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance