15.3.8.4 The following materials are prohibited within ten feet (10’) of the building grade: Smooth faced
block, smooth concrete, vinyl or metal siding
15.3.8.5 The following materials are prohibited: Opaque and reflective glass, T-111 panels, metal
siding including aluminum siding and standing seam panels
15.3.9 Side or Rear Façade Design: All sides of a building shall be similar in design and material to
present a cohesive appearance to neighboring properties. Wherever a side or rear façade is visible from a
public right-of-way or if parking is located at the side or rear of a building, the façade shall be designed
to create a pleasing appearance or as described within this Article.
15.3.10 Building Entrances: All buildings shall have at least one (1) primary public customer entrance
that faces a public street unless a building does not face a public street. Rear entrances are permitted
only if there is a primary entrance from a public street.
15.3.11 Mechanical Equipment: All units and appliances for central air conditioning, high voltage
electrical (HVAC) systems, exhaust pipes or stacks, elevator housing and satellite dishes or other
telecommunications receiving devices shall be thoroughly screened from view from the public right-ofway and from adjacent properties by using walls, fences, roofline elements, penthouse-type screening
devices or landscaping. Outdoor burning equipment is prohibited.
15.3.11.1 Fire escapes shall not be permitted on a building’s front façade. In buildings requiring a
second means of egress pursuant to the local building codes, internal stairs or other routes of egress
shall be used.
15.3.11.2 Solid metal security gates or solid roll-down metal windows shall be prohibited. Link or grill
type security devices shall be permitted only if installed from inside, within the window or door
frames; or if installed on the outside, if the coil box is recessed and concealed behind the building
wall. Security grills shall be recessed and concealed during normal business hours.
15.3.12 Service Access: A designated loading space shall be reserved at the rear of the building. Loading
from secondary streets may be permitted by the Otsego County Planning Commission upon
demonstration by the applicant that through traffic flow and access to neighboring uses will not be
disrupted.
15.3.13 Landscaping: Landscaping is an integral part of this district and shall compliment this district and
surrounding uses. Landscaping shall comply with the provisions elsewhere in this ordinance.
15.3.14 Courtyards and Plazas: Exterior public and semi-public spaces, such as courtyards or plazas,
shall be designed for function, enhance surrounding buildings and provide amenities for users in the
form of textured paving, landscaping, lighting, trees, benches, trash receptacles and other items of street
furniture as appropriate. Courtyards shall have recognizable edges defined on at least three (3) sides by
buildings, walls, elements of landscaping and elements of street furniture in order to create a strong
sense of enclosure.
15.3.15 Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided, maintained, repaired and/or replaced by the property
owner. Sidewalks shall conform to placement and level of adjacent neighborhood sidewalks or be
located one foot (1’) inside of the street right-of-way along all streets abutting the property. Sidewalks
shall be a minimum of forty-eight inches (48”) wide or the width of adjoining sidewalks as approved
during site plan review. Greater width may be required during site plan review. Sidewalk sections shall
be maintained, repaired or replaced when they are deemed hazardous. Such maintenance, repair or
replacement shall be completed within forty-five (45) days of written notice by Otsego County Building
and Zoning.
15.3.16 Utilities: All utilities and service structures when their operating requirements necessitate locating
the facilities within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity (storage yards excluded), shall be
located underground except where above ground equipment such as transformers, control panels, service
connections and meters are required. All above ground equipment shall be located at the rear of the
building. [Permit criteria includes Articles 21.10, 21.18.5 and 21.18.6 regarding screening and fencing]
XV-5
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance