SECTION 20.4 ACCESS
All developments shall have reasonable access to a public roadway. Access onto any roadway shall be
permitted only upon issuance of an access permit by the MDOT or OCRC in compliance with the site
review planning process.
20.4.1 Shared driveways, cross access driveways, interconnected parking, and private roads constructed
to provide access to properties internal to a subdivision shall be recorded as an easement and shall
constitute a covenant running with the land; Operating and maintenance agreements for these
facilities shall be recorded with the deed.
SECTION 20.5 PUBLIC ROAD STANDARDS
20.5.1 All roads proposed to be of public ownership shall conform to MDOT and/or OCRC road standards
20.5.2 All proposed curve radii shall be designed to MDOT and/or OCRC road standards for truck turning
requirements.
SECTION 20.6 PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS
20.6.1 Private roads shall be designed with sufficient width to adequately support emergency vehicle access
and turnaround requirements. Approval of the road’s design by Otsego County EMS, Otsego County
Sheriff’s Department, and primary responding Fire Department shall be provided.
20.6.2 All private road cross-sections and profiles shall be designed to adequately drain and prevent soil
erosion as approved by the Soil Erosion and Conservation District.
20.6.3 Private road signage shall be consistent with OCRC requirements.
20.6.4 Private roads serving three or more parcels shall have a road operation/maintenance agreement in
place which provides stipulations for the perpetual maintenance of the road. The maintenance agreement
shall be recorded with the Otsego County Register of Deeds and shall run with all parcels served by the
private road.
20.6.5 If it is intended for the road to become a public road at a later date, the road shall be designed to
conform to MDOT and/or OCRC road standards.
20.6.6 Private roads in existence on or before May 12, 2020 shall not be required to be brought into
compliance with Section 20.6.

XX-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance