21.28.2 Open Storage
The open storage of any equipment, vehicles and all materials including wastes, shall be screened from public
view, from public streets, and from adjoining properties. Scrap, junk cars and other junk materials shall not be
piled or stacked as open storage to a height in excess of twenty feet (20’), and must meet the requirements of
Article 21.3.1 and Article 19.
21.28.3 Glare and Radioactive Materials
Glare from any process (such as or similar to arc welding or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful rays
shall be permitted in such a manner as not to extend beyond the property line, and as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Radioactive materials and wastes, and including electromagnetic radiation
such as x-ray machine operations, shall not be emitted to exceed quantities established as safe by the U.S.
Bureau of Standards, when measured at the property line.
21.28.4 Fire and Explosive Hazards
The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products ranging from combustible to moderate
burning, as determined by the appropriate community fire protection authority, is permitted subject to
compliance with all other yard requirements, Article 19, performance standards previously mentioned, and
providing that the following conditions are met:
21.28.4.1 Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or produced within completely enclosed
buildings or structures having incombustible exterior walls.
21.28.4.2 The storage and handling of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum, gases, and explosives shall
comply with the State Rules and Regulations as established by Public Act No. 207 of 1941 as amended.
SECTION 21.29 PETS AND OTHER ANIMALS
21.29.1 The keeping of farm animals (horses, mules, cows, goats, chickens, pigs, etc.) for domestic purposes
on residential lots or in business districts shall require a permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall provide the applicant with a checklist showing which plot plan specifications of 25.3.3
need to be provided. Based on that application, the Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the
keeping of animals meets the criteria of this Zoning Ordinance, and, if so, issue a permit.
21.29.2 The review requirements of 21.29.1 shall not apply to active farms.
21.29.3 Any structures, pens or containment areas shall be set back at least thirty feet (30’) from any property
line. Adequate food and water shall be provided.
21.29.4 Domestic household pets, including dogs, cats, birds, and fish, but not including poisonous or
dangerous reptiles, wild or dangerous animals, may be kept as an accessory residential use on any premises
without a permit.
21.29.5 Subject to a hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall limit, restrict, and if deemed necessary, order a
reduction in the number of pets or other animals kept on any premises where it is determined that nuisances
exist, the residential environment is impaired, health hazards are involved, or the animals are housed in an
improper or unsanitary manner.
SECTION 21.30 RACE TRACK (Including Midget Auto, Snowmobile, and Horse Carting Track)
Special Use Permits may be granted by the Planning Commission in AR, FR, B2 and B3 Districts subject to
the following conditions and such other controls as the Planning Commission, after holding a hearing, deems
necessary to promote health, safety, and general welfare of the surrounding community area.
21.30.1 All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the boundaries of the development.
21.30.2 All access to the parking areas shall be provided from major traveled roads. Approval of ingress and
egress points shall be granted by the police or sheriff authority having jurisdiction.
XXI-33
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance