the maximum height permitted by this ordinance. Lower elevations (consistent with anemometer tower
approval) shall also be provided by the applicant.
c. The minimum site area for WTG – Large shall be as necessary to meet the required setbacks and any
other standards of this section.
d. Noise permitted from WTG – Large is governed by the original ambient baseline noise study performed
in accordance with Section 21.47.5.1(g) for the first WTG – Large on the subject property and original
fixed noise pressure limits above baseline for both day and night operations.
e. Broadband noise from WTG – Large shall be limited to no more than ten (10) decibels above the
original ambient baseline sound level (or that level which is exceeded ninety percent (90%) of the time)
beyond the property line, considering both daytime and night measurements as reported in the engineer’s
sound propagation model required in Section 21.47.5.1(g) . The day and night requirements may be
different. The harmonic mean of the night measurements will set the baseline for night noise limits and
the harmonic mean of the daytime measurements will set the baseline for daytime limits. Pure tones,
defined as an octave band (at any frequency), are limited to no more than three (3) decibels above the
adjacent higher and lower octave bands.
f. The maximum height of a Wind Turbine – Large shall be three hundred feet (300’). The Planning
Commission may approve an increased height for a WTG – Large, not to exceed four hundred feet
(400’), if the following specific conditions are met along with the general conditions set forth in Section
19.7 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance. The increased height, however, shall be the smallest
increase necessary to meet the following conditions:
1. The increased height is necessary for the preservation of a substantial stand of trees, existing land
forms or structures that would otherwise be removed to increase wind velocity.
2. To improve the sound model and/or improve compliance with Sections 21.47.5.1(d) and

21.47.5.1(e).
g. A WTG – Large shall meet a setback from any adjoining lot line and any adjoining public or private road
a distance equal to one and one-half (1½) times the WIND TURBINE HEIGHT, but setbacks shall not
be reduced to less than twelve hundred fifty feet (1250’).
h. For both horizontal and vertical axis WTG – Large turbines, the rotor shall be located on the tower such
that the minimum blade clearance above the ground is fifty feet (50’).
i. A WTG – Large shall be a monopole or monotube style construction (as distinguished from a latticestyle tower) and shall not utilize guy wires.
j. The WTG – Large shall have posted on the site in a visible, easily accessible location two (2) signs no
more than 4 sq. ft. in area displaying an address and telephone number for emergency calls. The
emergency telephone number shall allow a caller to contact a responsible individual to address
emergencies at any time during or after regular business hours and on weekends or holidays. One (1)
sign shall be located at the service drive entrance to the WTG at the minimum setback distance.
k. The WTG – Large shall have no advertising painted on or attached to the tower or any other structure of
the WTG.
l. The on-site electrical transmission lines connecting the WTG – Large to a public utility electricity
distribution system shall be located underground. In addition, all other utility lines shall be located
underground.
m. All WTG – Large turbines shall be equipped with controls to limit the rotational speed of the blades
within design limits for the specific WTG.
n. The WTG – Large shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness. Excessively bright or neon colors are not acceptable. The Planning
XXI-54
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance