SECTION 21.19 LIGHTING, OUTDOOR
Amended 8.27.2024

Outdoor light fixtures are electrically powered illuminating devices, outdoor lighting or reflective surfaces,
lamps and similar devices, permanently installed or portable, used for illumination or advertisement. Such
devices shall include search, spot and flood lights for buildings and structures, recreation areas, parking lot
lighting, landscape lighting, billboards and other signs (advertising or other), street lighting, product display area
lighting, building overhangs and open canopies.
All outdoor lighting fixtures including pole mounted or building mounted yard lights, dock lights, and shoreline
lights other than decorative residential lighting such as low-level lawn lights, shall be subject to the following
regulations:
21.19.1 Lighting shall be designed and constructed in such a manner:
21.19.1.1 To ensure that direct or directly reflected light is confined to the area needing it and that it is not
directed off the property,
21.19.1.2 That all light sources and light lenses are shielded,
21.19.1.3 That any light sources or light lenses are not directly visible from beyond the boundary of the site,
21.19.1.4 That light from any illuminated source shall be so shaded, shielded, or directed that the light
intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to surrounding areas.
21.19.2 Lighting fixtures shall be a down-type having one hundred percent (100%) cut off. The light rays may
not be emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the horizontal plane, as may be certified by photometric
test. A United States flag, Michigan flag or a flag of a veteran’s organization chartered by the United States
Government shall be allowed to have light illuminating them from below
21.19.3 There shall be no blinking, flashing, or fluttering lighting, including changes in light intensity, brightness
or color, except that lights may be controlled by a dimmer which can be periodically adjusted for conditions
and signs as allowed in 21.38.3.1. Beacon lights are not permitted except where required by law.
21.19.4 No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner so as to be confused with or construed
as traffic control devices.
21.19.5 Decorative lights during holiday seasons shall be allowed.
21.19.6 Modification of these outdoor lighting standards may be permitted by the Zoning Board of Appeals for
temporary uses of not more than ten (10) days per year, following these provisions as closely as possible.
21.19.7 Lighting shall be consistent with local, state and federal law. Lighting of other parts of the installation,
such as appurtenant structures, shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes, and shall
be reasonably shielded from abutting properties. Where feasible, lighting shall be directed downward and
shall incorporate full cut- off fixtures to reduce light pollution.
SECTION 21.20 LIVESTOCK AUCTION YARD
21.20.1 Special Use Permit may be granted by the Planning Commission in AR Zone.
21.20.2 Minimum forty (40) acres site size.
SECTION 21.21 LOADING AND UNLOADING (OFF-STREET)
Amended 7.12.2022

On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof, involving the receipt or distribution of
vehicles or materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for
standing, loading, and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of dedicated rights-of-way.
Such space shall be computed separately from the Off-Street Parking Requirements and shall be provided as
follows:
XXI-18
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance