LAND USE

COMMERCIAL CONTINUED

Taverns
Restaurants
Drive-up or Drive-through Uses-Restaurant, Banks,
Drug Pick-up, Laundries, Payment Windows
or other Drive-up Service Windows
Furniture, Appliances, Plumbers, Electricians, and
Minor Repair Services
Vehicle Service Station
Gasoline Convenience Store
Laundromat
Funeral Home/Mortuary
Motels, Hotels, Motor Inns, Cabin Courts, Bed &
Breakfast Facilities and Tourist Lodging Facilities
Vehicle Sales
Retail Groceries
Other Retail Stores
Self-Storage Rental Units
Personal Service Establishments
Museums

1 per 100 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 3 persons at maximum seating capacity
In addition to the required parking for the principal use, the Drive-through facilities
requirement in Article 18 shall be followed
1 per 800 sq. ft. of usable floor area

Manufacturing Shop
Industrial Office or Research
Warehouse and Wholesale
Industrial Laundries

2 per service stall, plus 1 per employee
1 per 300 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 3 machines for washing
1 per 200 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 150 sq. ft. of usable floor area, the Planning
Commission may reduce up to half if they reserve land for open space
1 per 200 sq. ft. of showroom usable floor area
1 per 150 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 150 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 10 units
1 per 100 sq. ft. usable floor area not otherwise specified
1 per 150 sq. ft. of usable floor area
1 per 200 sq. ft. of usable floor area in addition to a loading and unloading area; and a vehicle
turnaround and drop-off area
2 per range plus 1 per employee
1 per 200 sq. ft. usable activity area, the Planning Commission may reduce up to half if open
land is reserved for additional parking; parking as determined by site must be within the
activity buffer area
5 plus 1 per employee
1 ½ per employee
1 per employee, plus 1 per 200 sq. ft. of any office space
5 plus 1 per employee

Medical Laboratories

1 per 50 sq. ft. of waiting room plus 1 per employee

Rental Shops
Rifle or Pistol Range
Event Facility - Special
INDUSTRIAL

PER UNIT OF MEASURE

NOTES:
A.
B.
C.
D.

Sq. ft. refers to square feet of usable floor area unless otherwise noted.
1 unit per measure shall be interpreted to mean 1 per each unit, as 1 per "each" three (3) persons.
Space requirements are cumulative; hence, a country club may require parking for the golf use as well as restaurant or bar use.
Employees, refers to all permanent staff and part time equivalents in the largest working shift. Maximum capacity is the maximum occupancy permitted by
applicable building, fire, or health codes.

XXI-31
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance