TOURIST HOME: One (1) dwelling unit used or designed for rent to the transient public for compensation.
Such a use shall have the appearance of a single-family dwelling and be consistent with surrounding
neighborhood character. The dwelling need not be occupied by the family to be used as a Tourist Home. For
purposes of the limitations on the number of single-family dwellings on given parcel contained in Sections 4.1.1
– R1 District, 5.1.1 – R2 District, 6.1.1 – R3 District, 7.1.1 – RR District, 8.1.1 – FR District, and 9.1.1 – AR
District, a Tourist Home is considered a single-family dwelling.
TRAVEL TRAILER AND/OR CAMPER: Any trailer, trailer coach, motor home, tent camper, truckmountable camper, or other unit designed as a vacation or traveling unit for short term occupancy, and which
unit is legally licensed or licensable for towing or travel over public highways by ordinary domestic vehicle.
UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP: A situation whereby a property owner, due to the unique or unusual
conditions of a lot or parcel, cannot meet specific standards set by the Ordinance within the subject zoning
district. Situations created by an owner subsequent to the enactment of this Ordinance shall not be deemed an
unnecessary hardship.
USE: The principal purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which land
or a building is or may be occupied. An accessory use is subordinate and clearly incidental to the principal
use.
USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS: Refers to special land uses pursuant to PA 110 of 2006, as
amended and also pursuant to uses referred to in this Ordinance as special approvals, special uses, special land
uses, or conditional uses authorized by special permit.
VARIANCE: A modification of the literal provisions of the Zoning Ordinance which is authorized by the
Zoning Board of Appeals when strict enforcement of the Ordinance would cause practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardship for the property owner.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn
upon a highway, excepting devices exclusively moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks and excepting a mobile home as defined in Section 2 of Act No. 419 of the Public Acts of 1976,
being section 125.1102 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
VEHICLE REPAIR: Any major activity involving the general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
vehicles, engines or trailers; collision services, such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair; overall
painting and vehicle rust-proofing; refinishing or steam cleaning.
VEHICLE SERVICE STATION: A building and lot or parcel designed or used for the retail sale of fuel,
lubricants, air, water or other operating commodities for vehicles, and including customary space and facilities
for the installation of such commodities on or in such vehicles and including space for vehicle storage, minor
repair and servicing
WETLANDS: Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support
and that under normal circumstances does support wetland vegetation or aquatic life and is commonly referred
to as a bog, swamp, marsh, or other areas such as flood plains or environmental areas designated as such in the
County Comprehensive Plan or other county, state, or federal documents.
WIND TURBINE GENERATOR (WTG): A tower, pylon, or other structure and any, all or some
combination of the following:
1. A wind vane, blade, or series of wind vanes or blades, or other devices mounted on a rotor for the
purpose of converting wind into electrical or mechanical energy.
2. A shaft, gear, belt, or coupling device used to connect the rotor to a generator, alternator, or other
electrical or mechanical energy producing device.
3. A generator, alternator, or other device used to convert the energy created by the rotation of the rotor
into electrical or mechanical energy.
WIND TURBINE GENERATOR HEIGHT: The distance between the ground and the highest point of the
wind turbine generator, regardless whether that point is on a fixed or mobile part of the wind turbine generator.
II-13
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance