f. An avian study based on U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, “Guidelines to Avoid and Minimize Wildlife
Impacts from Wind Turbines”, Federal Register: July 10, 2003 (Volume 68, Number 132), or as updated
or amended, and in effect at the time of the WTG – Large construction application, shall be provided.
g. Analysis, measurements and projections of WTG – Large noise propagation shall conform to
International Electromechanical Commission (IEC) Standard 61400-11 Part 11, as that standard may be
amended or updated from time to time. Acoustic Noise Measurement Techniques shall include: optional
noise directivity requirements (see below), infrasound (low frequency) projections, low frequency noise
(between twenty and one hundred Hz (20-100)) measurement and analysis and impulsivity measurement
(noise pressure of potential “thumping” sounds). Analysis shall include but is not limited to:
1. A survey of the existing ambient background noise levels. Analysis shall include daytime
measurements and also at least two (2) ambient noise measurements between 9:00 PM and 11:59 PM
and two (2) between 1:00 AM and 5:00 AM.
2. A prediction of the WTG – Large noise levels at the property border. This can be made with
manufacturer’s data or data from a private testing agency for proposed WTGs or by direct
measurement for WTGs in place, so long as measurements are conducted according to IEC and
61400-11 part 11 as that standard may be amended or updated from time to time. Including
infrasound and low frequency noise between twenty and one hundred Hz (20-100), modeling must
identify likely pure tone sources.
3. Identification and support for a model for sound propagation. The model may be hemispherical or
spherical but particular attention must be paid to the noise propagation downwind of the proposed
installation site and the propagation of sound at differing atmospheric densities.
4. A comparison of calculated wind sound pressure levels with and without the WTG or proposed
WTGs. This confirms the baseline for permitted sound levels once the WTGs are operating shall be
provided.
h. Written documentation that the applicant has notified the FAA, Gaylord Regional Airport and any other
applicable state and federal regulatory agencies of the proposed WTG – Large.
i. Elevation drawings, computer generated sound models or simulations and other aids or documentation
projecting the sound reaching off the property, on which the WTG – Large will be constructed and the
extent and duration of the sound shall be provided.
j. Elevation drawings, computer generated photographic simulations and other images or other visual aids
that depict how the WTG – Large tower and all accessory structures will appear as constructed on the
proposed site from vantage points north, south, east and west of the WTG – Large tower shall be
provided.
k. A detailed written statement, with supporting evidence, demonstrating how the proposed WTG – Large
will comply with all of the standards for approval shall be provided.
l. Written documentation projecting the shadow flicker on any existing structures located off the property
on which the WTG – Large will be constructed, and the extent and duration of the flicker on these
existing structures.
21.47.5.2 Standards for WTG – LARGE Approval
The Planning Commission shall approve, or approve with conditions, an application for WTG – Large only
upon a finding that the proposed WTG – Large complies with all of the following applicable standards, and
the approval standards as found in Article 19 of the Zoning Ordinance.
a. Zoning District: Permitted Subject to Special Conditions in AR & FR.
b. The proposed site shall have documented annual wind resources sufficient for the operation of the
proposed WTG – Large. The wind resource documentation shall detail, at a minimum, ambient wind at
XXI-53
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance