DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): Dwelling, Two-Family - A building containing two (2)
separate dwelling units designed for residential use for two (2) single families each meeting the minimum
required size of a single-family dwelling. [See Article 17]
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units designed
for residential use and including a rooming house, bed and breakfast, tourist home, apartment house, group
quarters, or extended care facility for seven (7) or more persons, such as adult foster care or alternative
institutional setting home. State-licensed residential facilities shall be considered as single-family dwellings
when questions of overcrowding and safety are addressed by the state agency issuing the license.
ERECTED: Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon, or any physical operations on the
premises which are required for construction, excavation, fill, drainage, and the like.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of underground, surface, or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication,
supply or disposal systems, including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, electrical substations, gas regulator stations, and other similar
equipment, and applicable accessories reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Provided, however, that wireless telecommunication towers and facilities, alternative tower structures,
antennas, wind turbine generators and anemometer towers shall not be considered essential services.
EVENT – SPECIAL: A celebration, ceremony, wedding, reception, corporate function, or similar activity
for the benefit of someone other than the property owner or lessee that takes place on a periodic basis,
involving the gathering of individuals assembled for the common purpose of attending the gathering.
Events may operate entirely within a structure, outside of a structure or both inside and outside a
structure.
**Uses that are accessory to a single-family residential use including private parties, gatherings and similar
activities that are not subject to a use agreement between a private individual or group and the homeowner
are not defined as a special event.
EVENT FACILITY – SPECIAL: A facility where special events are permitted to occur. Special Event
Facilities are subject to a use agreement between a private group or individual and the facility owner. The
facility owner may or may not charge a fee for the use of the facility
EXCAVATION: Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and ground care.
EXTRANEOUS SOUND: A sound which is relatively intense, intermittent and of short duration and is
neither part of the neighborhood residual sound, nor comes from the sound source under investigation. The
sources of extraneous sound are noted, but excluded from all measurements (e.g., passing vehicle or distant
train).
FAMILY: One (1) or two (2) related persons or parents with their direct lineal descendants and adopted
children (and including the domestic employees thereof), together with not more than three (3) persons not so
related, living together as a single housekeeping unit.
FARM: Structures, facilities and lands of twenty (20) acres or more for carrying on of any agricultural use or
the raising of livestock or small animals as a source of income. [See also AGRICULTURE]
FENCE: Any permanent or temporary, partition, wall, structure or gate erected as a dividing structure,
barrier or enclosure including posts, supports or any other related accessories and not part of a structure
requiring a building permit.
FENESTRATION: The arrangement of windows and doors on the elevations of a building.
FLOOR AREA, USABLE (FOR COMPUTING PARKING): That area used for, or intended to be used
for, the sale of merchandise or services, or for use to serve patrons, clients, or customers. Floor area used,
or intended to be used, for the storage or processing of merchandise, hallways, or for utilities or sanitary
facilities, shall be excluded for the computation of "Usable Floor Area" All floor levels shall be counted.
II-6
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance