1. Lots located in R1, R2, R3, RR, B1, B2, B3 & HX zoning districts shall be allowed up to two (2)
WTG – Building-Mounted on a single lot if the lot meets or exceeds the Minimum Lot Area
requirements of Article 17, and provided all the requirement for WTG – Building-Mounted are met.
2. Lots located in FR, AR & I zoning districts shall be allowed up to four (4) WTG – BuildingMounted on a single parcel if the parcel meets or exceeds the Minimum Lot Area requirements of
Article 17, and provided all the requirements for WTG – Building-Mounted are met.
3. WTG – Building-Mounted shall only be located on buildings greater than 200 sq. ft. in area.
4. The Number of Units may be increased, in all zoning districts, by a rate of one (1) per each 20,000
sq. ft. a lot is larger than the minimum lot size required in Article 17 provided all the requirements
for WTG – Building-Mounted are met.
5. WTG – Building-Mounted shall be sited no closer than the height of the taller WTG from its base
to the base of an adjacent WTG. For this purpose, the base of a Building-Mounted WTG is
considered to be the point at which the WTG tower attaches to the building.
e. Sound Pressure Level: Maximum sound pressure level emanating from the WTG and measured on the
dB(A) scale at any adjacent property line or any adjoining public or private road with respect to the
property on which the WTG is located shall be dependent on the zoning district in which the adjacent
property or road is located per the following schedule:
Zoning District
R1, R2, R3, RR, B1
FR, AR
B2, B3, HX
I

Day dB(A)
40
40
50
60

Night dB(A)
35
35
45
50

For the purposes of this article, “Day” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 AM and7:00 PM and
“Night” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM. Sound pressure levels may be
exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or windstorms.
f. Code Requirements: Shall meet all applicable state and local construction and electrical codes, and all
other permits required by law.
g. Safety: WTG shall have an automatic braking, governing, or feathering system and shall be maintained
in accordance with Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed standards.
h. Tower: Shall meet or exceed tower specifications provided by the manufacturer of the generator, or
have a design approved by an independent professional engineer licensed in the State of Michigan.
i. WTG Unit: Shall be Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed.
j. Shadow flicker: The WTG – Building-Mounted shall be designed, sited and operated in such a manner
to minimize shadow flicker on a roadway. In addition, the WTG – Building-Mounted shall be designed,
sited and operated in a manner to prevent shadow flicker on any existing structures located off the
property on which the WTG – Building Mounted is erected. The owner and/or operator shall prohibit
shadow flicker on any future lawfully constructed structure located off the property on which the WTGBuilding Mounted is erected.
k. Sale of electric power via net metering is permitted per applicable state law.
l. The WTG-Building Mounted shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be a neutral color so
as to reduce visual obtrusiveness. Excessively bright or neon colors are not acceptable. The Planning
Commission, however, may approve an alternate color if the WTG-Building Mounted is located within
an avian migratory route or if an alternate color would otherwise benefit the neighborhood.

XXI-48
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance