m. The WTG-Building Mounted shall not be artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the FAA.
Where the FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA
regulations, the fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent possible to minimize glare
and visibility from the ground and no strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the
FAA.
n. The WTG-Building Mounted shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that access is limited,
to the extent possible, to authorize personnel only.
o. The WTG-Building Mounted shall be constructed and operated so that it does not interfere with
television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception in neighboring areas. If degradation of
television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception occurs as the result of the WTG, the WTG
Building Mounted owner and/or operator shall take such action as to correct the television, radio, cellular
telephone or microwave reception.
p. The WTG-Building Mounted shall have no advertising painted on or attached to the tower or any other
structure of the WTG.
q. A WTG-Building Mounted that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be
removed by the owner of the WTG within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice from the county
requiring removal.
r. The owner shall be responsible for the ongoing compliance with the standards of this ordinance.
21.47.3 Wind Turbine Generator — SMALL
A zoning permit shall be issued only when the following requirements are met:
a. Zoning District: Permitted as an accessory use to an allowed Principal Use in all zoning districts.
b. Height: Shall have a WIND TURBINE GENERATOR HEIGHT less than sixty feet (60’).
c. Property Line Setback: Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the Wind Turbine
Generator Height to the nearest property line from the base of the WTG.
d. Riparian Zone Setback: Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the Wind Turbine
Generator Height to the nearest ordinary high-water mark of lakes in the County that appear on the most
recent US Geological Survey Quadrangle maps.
Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the Wind Turbine Generator Height to the nearest
banks of rivers, streams, and flowages of water in the County that appear on the most recent US Geological
Survey Quadrangle maps. These setbacks are measured on a horizontal plane.
e. Number of Units: Lots located in R1, R2, R3, RR, AR, FR, B1, B2, B3, I and HX zoning districts may
be allowed one (1) WTG – Small on a single lot if the lot meets or exceeds the Minimum Lot Area
requirements of Article 17, and provided all the requirements for WTG – Small are met.
1. The Number of Units may be increased to a density not to exceed one (1) WTG-Small per five (5)
acres (217,800 sq. ft.).
2. WTG – Small shall be sited no closer than one and on-half (1½) times the height of the taller WTG
from its base to the base of an adjacent WTG.
f. Sound Pressure Level: Maximum sound pressure level emanating from the WTG and measured on the
dB(A) scale at any adjacent property line or any adjoining public or private road with respect to the
property on which the WTG is located shall be dependent on the zoning district in which the WTG is
located per the following schedule:

XXI-49
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance