21.25.14 Permit Extension:
21.25.14.1 All requests for an extension/renewal of a Special Use Permit shall for mining, excavation,
extraction or filling follow the same process as a request for a new permit.
21.25.15 Permit Expiration:
21.25.15.1 If approval for a Special Use Permit for mining, excavation, extraction or filling is granted by the
Otsego County Planning Commission, it shall be for a specific period of time not to exceed five (5) years
and shall specify the period of restoration which cannot extend more than eighteen (18) months beyond the
permitted time for operation.
SECTION 21.26 NONCONFORMITIES
Amended 7.30.2019

21.26.1 Intent
It is recognized that there exists within the districts established by this Ordinance and/or by subsequent
amendments, lots, buildings, structures, and uses of land and structures which were lawful before this Ordinance
was passed or amended which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or
future amendments.
It is the intent of this Ordinance to permit these legal nonconforming lots, buildings, structures, or uses to
continue until they are removed but not to allow new nonconformities.
21.26.2 Nonconforming Lot
A nonconforming lot is a lot that the boundaries of which are recorded in a plat, deed or land contract executed
and delivered prior to the effective date of this Ordinance and the width, depth, and/or area of which does not
meet the minimum dimensional requirements of the District in which it is located.
A single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the District; provided that
yard dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the District in which such lot is located. Minimum front, side and rear setbacks, and maximum
lot coverage modifications up to twenty-five percent (25%) may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
Modifications greater than twenty-five percent (25%) may be obtained only by approval of the Board of Appeals.
Where two (2) or more adjoining nonconforming lots are in existence under single ownership, such lots shall be
used only in combinations which most closely satisfy the minimum lot size standards prescribed for the District
in which said lots are located.
For definition purposes, "most closely" shall apply in situations where, for example, two (2) lots combined do
not meet the minimum, but a third (3) lot would exceed the minimum by a greater amount than two (2) lots
would fall short; hence, only two (2) lots need to be combined in this case.
21.26.3 Nonconforming Use of Land
Nonconforming uses of land may be continued, so long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
21.26.3.1 No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of
land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance.
21.26.4 Nonconforming Structure
Nonconforming structures may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:

XXI-26
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance