presence and action of the water is so common or recurrent that the character of the land is marked distinctly
from the upland and is apparent in the soil itself, the configuration of the surface of the soil and the vegetation.
Where water returns to its natural level as the result of the permanent removal or abandonment of a dam, it
means the natural ordinary high-water mark.
PARKING – IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A material incapable of being penetrated by water and other
liquids. Under conditions where spills are to be retained, retention capability must be sufficient to contain
one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of any reasonably foreseeable spill for any reasonably foreseeable
period necessary and have sufficient strength and durability to remain intact under reasonably foreseeable
conditions. For the purpose of calculating storm water runoff, impervious surfaces shall include all roofs,
slabs, pavements and gravel drives and parking lots.
PARKING – IMPROVED SURFACE: Areas of a stable, firm, maneuverable surface designated for regular
use of parking and overflow parking
PARKING – UNIMPROVED SURFACE: An open space of a reasonably level area designated for
occasional use of parking
PARKING SPACE: An area of definite length and width, exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving
access thereto, and fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted vehicles
PERSON: Any owner, lessee or occupant of property, including any individual, corporation, business or other
entity; “person” also means any individual in any public place or any private place open to the general-public
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND FACILITIES:
Self-supporting or guyed towers of one hundred fifty feet (150’) or less that provide data and internet access
within a three to five (3-5) mile radius. These low wattage towers are a Permitted Use Subject to Special
Conditions. [See Section 21.46]
Section 322(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act uses the following definitions:
(i) the term “personal wireless services” means commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services;
(ii) the term “personal wireless service facilities” means facilities for the provision of personal wireless
services; and
(iii) the term “unlicensed wireless service” means the offering of telecommunications services using
duly authorized devices which do not require individual licenses, but does not mean the provision of
direct-to-home satellite services.
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM (also referred to as Photovoltaic Installation): An active solar energy
system that converts solar energy directly into electricity.
PLANNING COMMISSION: Shall mean the Otsego County Planning Commission
PLAZA: A public square in a city or town; an open area usually located near urban buildings and often
featuring walkways, trees and shrubs, places to sit and sometimes shops.
POLLUTING MATERIALS: Materials which are capable of adversely affecting air or water resources by
altering odor, taste, color, or physical or chemical composition to a degree that public health or biological
communities are threatened - Examples of Polluting Materials include fertilizers and pesticides.
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY: A situation whereby a property owner cannot establish a “minimum
practical” legal use of a legal lot or parcel, while meeting all of the dimensional standards of the zoning
district within which the lot is located. Situations occurring due to the property owner’s desire to establish a
use greater than the “minimum practical” use or created by an owner subsequent to the adoption date of this
Ordinance is not a practical difficulty.
PROPERTY LINE: The imaginary line which represents the legal limits of property owned, leased, or
otherwise occupied by a person or business entity. In cases involving sound from an activity on a public rightof-way, the property line shall be the nearest boundary of the public right-of-way.
II-10
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance