ARTICLE 24 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
INTENT
The planned unit development (PUD) is intended to be a development option for land use changes in
specified districts that contain multi-functional land use elements under single ownership or single
management control. It is specifically intended to permit flexibility in the regulation of land development;
encourage innovation in land use and variety in design, layout and type of structures constructed; achieve
economy and efficiency in the use of land, natural resources, energy and the providing of public services and
utilities; encourage the maintaining of open space in its natural state; and provide better housing,
employment and shopping opportunities particularly suited to the needs of the residents of the County.
Planned unit developments may be authorized by special use permit pursuant to the procedures and site plan
review of Article 19 of this Ordinance. Planned unit developments may be authorized in the following
districts: R1, R2, and R3 and other residential districts in which PUD development would be appropriate.
This may include the RR, FR and AR Districts.
The PUD is not intended to be a substitute for a multiple family zoning district, and any business type
services are permitted only as accessory uses to the larger planned development.
SECTION 24.1 GENERAL STANDARDS
24.1.1 To be eligible for Planned Unit Development approval, the applicant must demonstrate that the
following criteria will be met, in addition to the other requirements of this Section:
24.1.1.1 Recognizable and Substantial Benefit: The Planned Unit Development shall result in a
recognizable and substantial benefit to the ultimate users of the project and to the community. Such
benefit must otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved taking into consideration the
reasonably foreseeable detriments of the proposed development and use(s); including without
limitation:
24.1.1.1.1 The long-term protection and/or preservation of natural resources and natural features
and/or historical and/or architectural features of a significant quantity and/or quality in need of
protection or preservation on a local, state and/or national basis;
24.1.1.1.2 Reducing to a significant extent the non-conformity of a non-conforming use or structure,
i.e., modification of a non-conforming use or structure so that, to a significant extent, it is rendered
more conforming, or less offensive, to the zoning district in which it is situated.
24.1.1.2 Availability and Capacity of Public Services: The proposed type and density of use shall not
result in an unreasonable increase in the use of public services, facilities, and utilities. In determining
whether an unreasonable increase exists, the Planning Commission shall consider impacts and any
mitigation measures proposed by the developer, as well as any identified by any public agency. Where
an impact will cause a public service, facility or utility to exceed its design capacity or create a threat
to public health or safety, the project shall not be permitted without adequate mitigating measures to
prevent an unhealthy or unsafe condition. Where the impact is less, but still unreasonable in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, which shall be based on documented facts cited by the Planning
Commission, then the PUD project shall not proceed without satisfactory mitigation measures that
reflect contributions by the PUD developer equal to the magnitude of the projected development
impact.
24.1.1.3 Compatibility with the Comprehensive Plan: The proposed development shall not have an adverse
impact on the Comprehensive Plan of the County.
24.1.1.4 Compatibility with the Planned Unit Development Intent: The proposed development shall
be consistent with the intent and spirit of these regulations, as stated in the intent of this Article.
24.1.1.5 Economic Impact: The proposed development shall not unreasonably impede the continued use
or development of surrounding properties for uses that are permitted in the zoning district.
XXIV-1
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance