WIND TURBINE GENERATOR- BUILDING-MOUNTED: An on-site Wind Turbine Generator (WTG)
used to generate electricity or produce mechanical energy for use on the property where it is located and
attached to the building’s roof, walls, or other elevated surface.
WIND TURBINE GENERATOR - LARGE: A commercial Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) used to
generate and provide electricity to the electric utility grid. It may include nearby accessory facilities necessary
to supply and transfer the electricity to the utility grid. These WTGs are greater than one hundred twenty feet
(120’) in height and shall not exceed four hundred feet (400’).
WIND TURBINE GENERATOR - MEDIUM: An on-site Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) used to
generate electricity or produce mechanical energy for use on the property where it is located having a height
of greater than sixty feet (60’) but less than or equal to one hundred twenty feet (120’).
WIND TURBINE GENERATOR - SMALL: An on-site Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) used to generate
electricity or produce mechanical energy for use on the property where it is located having a height of sixty
feet (60’) or less.
YARDS: The open spaces on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, and as defined herein:
YARD - FRONT: An open space extending the full width of the lot the depth of which meets the setback
requirements of the zoning district. [See SETBACK]
Corner Lots: Shall provide front yard setbacks on all streets, frontages, or future road easements that
have or may potentially have adjacent lots fronting on the same street (or across there from).
YARD - REAR: An open space extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which meets the setback
requirements of the zoning district. In the case of a corner lot, the rear yard may be opposite either street
frontage. [See SETBACK.]
YARD - SIDE: An open space which meets the setback requirements of the zoning district, extending
from the front yard to the rear yard. [See SETBACK]
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The official designated by the County Board of Commissioners to
administer and enforce the provisions of the Ordinance - The Zoning Administrator may be the Building
Official, Building Inspector or other person charged with the responsibility of administering building, land
use and/or other codes in Otsego County

II-14
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance