21.47.4 Wind Turbine Generator — MEDIUM
A zoning permit shall be issued only when the following requirements are met:
a. Zoning District: Permitted as an Accessory Use to an allowed Principal Use only in AR, FR & I
Zoning Districts.
b. Height: Shall have a WIND TURBINE GENERATOR HEIGHT greater than sixty feet (60’) but less
than or equal to one hundred twenty feet (120’).
c. Property Line Setback: Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the Wind Turbine
Generator Height to the nearest property line from the base of the WTG.
d. Riparian Zone Setback: Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the Wind Turbine
Generator Height to the nearest ordinary high water mark of lakes in the County that appear on the most
recent US Geological Survey Quadrangle maps. Shall not be closer than one and one-half (1½) times the
Wind Turbine Generator Height to the nearest banks of rivers, streams, and flowages of water in the
County that appear on the most recent US Geological Survey Quadrangle maps. These setbacks are
measured on a horizontal plane.
e. Avian Corridors: WTG-Medium should not be located in historic avian migration pathways or
frequent use corridors.
f. Number of Units: Lots located in AR, FR & I zoning districts shall be allowed one (1) WTG – Medium
on a single lot if the lot meets or exceeds the Minimum Lot Area requirements of Article 17 and
provided all the requirement for WTG – Medium are met.
1. The Number of Units may be increased to a density not to exceed one (1) WTG-Medium per ten (10)
acres (435,600 sq. ft.).
2. WTG – Medium shall be sited no closer than one and one-half (1½) times the height of the taller WTG
from its base to the base of an adjacent WTG.
g. Sound Pressure Level: Maximum sound pressure level emanating from the WTG and measured on the
dB(A) scale at any adjacent property line or any adjoining public or private road with respect to the
property on which the WTG is located shall be dependent on the zoning district in which the WTG is
located per the following schedule:
Zoning District
R1, R2, R3, RR, B1
FR, AR
B2, B3, HX
I

Day dB(A)
Not permitted
40
Not permitted
60

Night dB(A)
Not permitted
35
Not permitted
50

For the purposes of this article, “Day” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 AM and 7:00 PM and
“Night” shall be defined as the hours between 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM. Sound pressure levels may be
exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or windstorms.
h. Code Requirements: Shall meet all applicable state and local construction and electrical codes, and
other permits required by law. Wiring for WTG – Medium shall be underground or enclosed in the
tower.
i. Safety: WTG – Medium shall have an automatic braking, governing, or feathering system and shall be
maintained in accordance with Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed standards.
j. Blade clearance: The minimum blade tip clearance from grade, structure, or appurtenance shall be
twenty feet (20’).

XXI-51
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance