k. Tower: Shall be a free-standing monopole (guy wires are not permitted) that shall meet or exceed tower
specifications provided by the manufacturer of the generator or have a design approved by an
independent professional engineer licensed in the State of Michigan.
l. Shadow flicker: The WTG – Medium shall be designed, sited and operated in such a manner to
minimize shadow flicker on a roadway. In addition the WTG – Medium shall be designed, sited and
operated in a manner to prevent shadow flicker on any existing structures located off the property on
which the WTG – Medium is erected. The owner and/or operator shall prohibit shadow flicker on any
future lawfully constructed structure located off the property on which the WTG-Medium is erected.
m. Sale of electric power via net metering is permitted per applicable state law.
n. The WTG – Medium shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness. Excessively bright or neon colors are not acceptable. The Planning
Commission, however, may approve an alternate color if the WTG – Medium is located within an avian
migratory route or if an alternate color would otherwise benefit the neighborhood.
o. The WTG – Medium shall not be artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the FAA. Where the
FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations, the
fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility
from the ground and no strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the FAA.
p. The WTG – Medium shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that access is limited, to the
extent possible, to authorize personnel only.
q. The WTG – Medium shall be constructed and operated so that it does not interfere with television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception in neighboring areas. If degradation of television, radio,
cellular telephone or microwave reception occurs as the result of the WTG, the owner and/or operator
shall take such action as to correct the television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave reception
r. The WTG – Medium shall have no advertising painted on or attached to the tower or any other structure
of the WTG.
s. A WTG – Medium that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be removed
by the owner of the WTG within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice from the county requiring
removal.
t. The owner shall be responsible for the ongoing compliance with the standards of this ordinance.
21.47.5 Wind Turbine Generator – LARGE
21.47.5.1 Application Requirements for WTG – LARGE
In addition to the application requirements of Article 19 of this ordinance, an application for a special use
permit for a WTG – Large shall include all the following information, unless expressly indicated otherwise:
a. A site plan meeting all of the requirements of Article 23 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance.
b. All requirements of Article 19 of the Otsego County Zoning Ordinance shall be met.

c. A study prepared by a professional engineer, licensed in the State of Michigan, documenting that the site
of the WTG – Large has sufficient wind resources for the proposed WTG – Large equipment.

d. A detailed analysis by a professional engineer, licensed in the State of Michigan, describing the specific
WTG - Large structure(s) tower proposed and all phases for implementing the development in
compliance with these standards.

e. A resume’ or other written summary of the education, experience and other qualifications of all experts
providing information concerning the WTG – Large project shall be provided.

XXI-52
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance