21.47.6.3 Conditions for Anemometer Towers
The Planning Commission may attach reasonable conditions to the approval of an anemometer tower.
These conditions may include those necessary to ensure that public services and facilities affected by the
Anemometer tower will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the
anemometer tower, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to insure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically
desirable manner. Any conditions imposed, however, shall meet all of the following requirements:
a. Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety, and welfare and the social and economic
well-being of those who will use the anemometer tower under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed anemometer tower and the community as a whole.
b. Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes which are affected by the proposed
anemometer tower.
c. Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning ordinance, be related to the standards
established in the ordinance for the anemometer tower under consideration, and be necessary to insure
compliance with those standards.
21.47.6.4 Performance Guarantee for Anemometer Towers
In connection with the approval of an anemometer tower the Planning Commission shall require the owner
of the anemometer tower to furnish the County with a performance guarantee in the form of a cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond acceptable to the County in an amount equal
to the estimated costs associated with removal of the anemometer tower and all associated equipment and
accessory structures and restoration of the site to a reusable condition which shall include the removal of all
underground structures to a depth of ten feet (10’) below the natural ground level at that location.
A detailed cost estimate for the removal of the anemometer tower shall be provided with the application and
shall be based on Means Construction Estimating Guide or similar accepted pricing schedule and shall not
include credit for the salvageable value of any materials.
21.47.6.5 Removal of Anemometer Towers
Anemometer towers that are not operated for a continuous period of ninety (90) days shall be removed by
the owner of the anemometer tower within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice from the County requiring
such removal. For purposes of this section, non-operation shall be deemed to include, but shall not be
limited to, the anemometer instrument(s) being removed from the anemometer tower or disconnected so that
wind resources are no longer being measured. In the event an anemometer tower owner fails to remove the
anemometer tower as required by this section, the County shall have the authority to remove the
anemometer tower and shall utilize the performance bond to cover the costs of such removal. If the
performance bond is not sufficient to cover the cost of the removal or the performance bond has expired or
is not available, the County shall institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of
the cost for removal.
21.47.6.6 Duration of Permit for Anemometer Towers
A permit to construct and operate an anemometer tower shall be valid for fifteen (15) months and may be
extended for a maximum of twelve (12) months, subject to planning commission approval.

XXI-59
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance