Note a: Lots within five hundred feet (500’) of lakes, ponds, flowages, rivers, streams: see Article 18,
LOTS NEAR WATER.
Note b: Where the front yards of two (2) or more principal buildings in any block, or within five hundred
feet (500’) in existence at the time of the passage of this Ordinance (or amendment thereto), in the
same zoned district or the same side of the road are less than the minimum front yard setback, then
any principal building subsequently erected on the same side of the road shall not be required to
provide a greater setback than the average for the existing two (2) or more principal buildings.
Note c: On the exterior side yard which borders on a residential district, there shall be provided a setback of
not less than twenty feet (20’) on the residential side in B1, B2, B3 and HX.
Note d: Loading and unloading space shall be provided in the rear yard in the ratio of at least 10 sq. ft. per
linear foot of front building wall. Loading space shall not be counted as required off-street parking.
Loading zones may be located in other non-required yards if screened or obscured from view from
public streets and residential districts.
Note e: Off-street parking may be permitted in the front yard, except that a ten foot (10’) wide landscaped
buffer is maintained between the front lot line, or right-of-way line and the parking area.
Note f: No building shall be placed closer than forty feet (40’) to the outer perimeter of such district or
property line when said use abuts a residential district boundary.
Note g: Subject to approval by the Planning Commission, the maximum height of buildings may be
permitted to exceed the maximum stated in the SCHEDULE by up to fifty percent (50%) in R1, R2,
R3, RR, B1, B2 and HX Districts; and up to one hundred percent (100%) in all other districts,
provided that the applicant can demonstrate that no good purpose would be served by compliance
with maximums stated, (as in the case of steep topography, a Planned Unit Development (PUD), or
larger site); and further, there is no conflict with airport zoning height restrictions; fire safety is
maintained subject to local fire authority approval; and the light, air and/or scenic views of adjoining
property is not impaired. The Planning Commission and or Zoning Board of Appeals cannot allow a
WTG height greater than allowed in Section 21.47, or a Wireless Telecommunication Towers and
Facilities greater than the height allowed in the Zoning District PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED or
PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS. Also see Article 22 GENERAL
EXCEPTIONS FOR AREA, HEIGHT AND USE .
Note h: Section 21.1 allows a rear setback of ten feet (10’) for accessory buildings.
Note i: The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in a licensed mobile home park
except to the extent required by state or federal law or otherwise specifically required in this
Ordinance.
Note j: In instances where the property is adjacent to a public right of way or ingress egress easement
dedicated as permanent adequate access to one (1) or more lots, the setback shall be measured from
that right of way or ingress egress easement.
Note k: Specific allowable uses have greater minimum lot widths as required in the Zoning District
allowable use lists.
Note l: Specific allowable uses have greater allowable heights as stated in the Zoning District allowable use
lists, Article 21 and Article 22, Section 22.3 HEIGHT LIMITS, of this ordinance
Note m: For accessory structures, total useable square footage will be used to determine compliance with the
lot coverage requirement. For example, the total usable square footage of a 30’x40’ accessory
structure with a second story containing an additional 10’x20’ storage area would be 1,400 sq. ft.
(1,200 sq. ft. of the main building plus the additional 200 sq. ft. of storage space on the second
level).
Note n: Minimum square footage is measured by the footprint that sits on the ground – garages, decks, and
porches are not included in this measurement. All dwellings must meet current Building and Health
Department code.
XVII-2
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance