24.2.3.1 The landscape shall be preserved in its pre-approval condition, insofar as practicable, by
minimizing tree and soil removal and by topographic modifications which result in maximum harmony
with adjacent areas.
24.2.4 A hearing by the Planning Commission in accord with the requirements of the special use procedure
established in Article 19; Section 19.5 shall be initiated after review of the preliminary site plan by the
County Planning Commission.
24.2.5 Final Plans: If the proposed planned unit development project preliminary site plan is approved,
final site plans shall be prepared for each stage according to the development schedule. The final site
plan and supporting material shall show in detail the design and use of all buildings and overall land
development plans, as well as such other considerations as are appropriate. An approved planned unit
development shall be in conformance with all comprehensive plan elements and the requirements of this
ordinance. A special use permit shall be valid only for that site plan and supporting material upon which
the approval of the proposed planned unit development project was based. All supporting material shall
remain on file with the approved final site plan. The County Planning Commission may approve minor
changes to an approved preliminary site plan without additional public hearings if changes do not affect
the overall density, impact of, concept or intent of the development. Minor changes shall be made only
upon the mutual consent of the County Planning Commission and the landowner affected. The Planning
Commission shall maintain a record of conditions which are changed.
Major Changes: Changes in density, height of buildings, reduction of proposed open space, development
schedule or final governing agreements, provisions or covenants may be approved only by submission of a
new preliminary site plan or applicable supporting material followed by another hearing according to the
special use procedures in Article 19.2. Once compliance with Ordinance requirements is achieved, the final
site plan shall be approved by the County Planning Commission.
24.2.6 Continuing control: The planned unit development project shall be developed only according to the
approved and recorded final plan and all supporting material. The recorded final plan and supporting
material together with all recorded amendments shall be binding on the applicants, their successors and
assigns and shall limit and control the uses of premises and location of structures in the planned unit
development. Major changes in the final site plan during or after construction shall be accomplished only
by submission of a new preliminary site plan followed by the special use permit procedure. The County
Planning Commission shall consider the planned unit development special use permit subject to
termination if construction falls more than one (1) year behind schedule.
24.2.7 Fees and permits: The Board of County Commissioners may establish a schedule of reasonable fees
to be charged for plan review. Zoning permits shall be required for each structure according to Article 25.
The Zoning Administrator shall base issuance upon conformance with the final plan and supporting
material.
SECTION 24.3 OPEN SPACE PLAN
24.3.1 Clustered residences shall be placed contiguously, not dispersed over the property. Maximum gross
density of one (1) unit per one (1) acre for FR and AR districts, are allowed only where seventy-five
percent (75%) of the total site remains undeveloped. For all other districts, fifty percent (50%) of the total
site shall remain undeveloped.
Regulated or unregulated wetlands used in density calculations shall be left in their natural state, that is, as
they were before proposed development, except as a mitigation plan with a wetland permit approved by
DNR is made part of the site plan for regulated wetland or approved by the Planning Commission for
unregulated wetland. Existing vegetation and water-related conditions shall remain undisturbed except
where specifically authorized in the PUD plan. Unless using an open space plan, applicant must hold to
Article 17 for gross density.
24.3.2 Open Space Plan: Plans for open space reservation, natural resource conservation and recreation in
Open Space Plan for permanent dwellings or seasonal dwellings may be approved. In reviewing and
XXIV-4
Table of Contents

Otsego County Zoning Ordinance